===Start
:goto Index

===Index
Apostle Luke

>Luke
>Acts
>END

===Luke
THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO 
SAINT LUKE
>Luke 1 
>Luke 2 
>Luke 3
>Luke 4
>Luke 5
>Luke 6
>Luke 7
>Luke 8
>Luke 9
>Luke 10
>Luke 11
>Luke 12
>Luke 13
>Luke 14
>Luke 15
>Luke 16
>Luke 17
>Luke 18
>Luke 19
>Luke 20
>Luke 21
>Luke 22
>Luke 23
>Luke 24
>Index
>End

===Acts
THE ACTS OF THE APOSTLES
>Acts 1 
>Acts 2 
>Acts 3
>Acts 4
>Acts 5
>Acts 6
>Acts 7
>Acts 8
>Acts 9
>Acts 10
>Acts 11
>Acts 12
>Acts 13
>Acts 14
>Acts 15
>Acts 16
>Acts 17
>Acts 18
>Acts 19
>Acts 20
>Acts 21
>Acts 22
>Acts 23
>Acts 24
>Acts 25
>Acts 26
>Acts 27
>Acts 28
>Index
>End




===Luke 1 
Luke 1:1	Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us,
Luke 1:2	Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses, and ministers of the word;
Luke 1:3	It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus,
Luke 1:4	That thou mightest know the certainty of those things, wherein thou hast been instructed.
Luke 1:5	THERE was in the days of Herod, the king of Judaea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia: and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth.
Luke 1:6	And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless.
Luke 1:7	And they had no child, because that Elisabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years.
Luke 1:8	And it came to pass, that while he executed the priest's office before God in the order of his course,
Luke 1:9	According to the custom of the priest's office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord.
Luke 1:10	And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the time of incense.
Luke 1:11	And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense.
Luke 1:12	And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him.
Luke 1:13	But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John.
Luke 1:14	And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice at his birth.
Luke 1:15	For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb.
Luke 1:16	And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God.
Luke 1:17	And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
Luke 1:18	And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years.
Luke 1:19	And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee these glad tidings.
Luke 1:20	And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season.
Luke 1:21	And the people waited for Zacharias, and marvelled that he tarried so long in the temple.
Luke 1:22	And when he came out, he could not speak unto them: and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple: for he beckoned unto them, and remained speechless.
Luke 1:23	And it came to pass, that, as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house.
Luke 1:24	And after those days his wife Elisabeth conceived, and hid herself five months, saying,
Luke 1:25	Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days wherein he looked on me, to take away my reproach among men.
Luke 1:26	And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth,
Luke 1:27	To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary.
Luke 1:28	And the angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that art highly favoured, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.
Luke 1:29	And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be.
Luke 1:30	And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary: for thou hast found favour with God.
Luke 1:31	And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS.
Luke 1:32	He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David:
Luke 1:33	And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end.
Luke 1:34	Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man?
Luke 1:35	And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.
Luke 1:36	And, behold, thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her old age: and this is the sixth month with her, who was called barren.
Luke 1:37	For with God nothing shall be impossible.
Luke 1:38	And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her.
Luke 1:39	And Mary arose in those days, and went into the hill country with haste, into a city of Juda;
Luke 1:40	And entered into the house of Zacharias, and saluted Elisabeth.
Luke 1:41	And it came to pass, that, when Elisabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her womb; and Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost:
Luke 1:42	And she spake out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
Luke 1:43	And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
Luke 1:44	For, lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy.
Luke 1:45	And blessed is she that believed: for there shall be a performance of those things which were told her from the Lord.
Luke 1:46	And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord,
Luke 1:47	And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.
Luke 1:48	For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden: for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed.
Luke 1:49	For he that is mighty hath done to me great things; and holy is his name.
Luke 1:50	And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation.
Luke 1:51	He hath shewed strength with his arm; he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.
Luke 1:52	He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree.
Luke 1:53	He hath filled the hungry with good things; and the rich he hath sent empty away.
Luke 1:54	He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy;
Luke 1:55	As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for ever.
Luke 1:56	And Mary abode with her about three months, and returned to her own house.
Luke 1:57	Now Elisabeth's full time came that she should be delivered; and she brought forth a son.
Luke 1:58	And her neighbours and her cousins heard how the Lord had shewed great mercy upon her; and they rejoiced with her.
Luke 1:59	And it came to pass, that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child; and they called him Zacharias, after the name of his father.
Luke 1:60	And his mother answered and said, Not so; but he shall be called John.
Luke 1:61	And they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name.
Luke 1:62	And they made signs to his father, how he would have him called.
Luke 1:63	And he asked for a writing table, and wrote, saying, His name is John. And they marvelled all.
Luke 1:64	And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and he spake, and praised God.
Luke 1:65	And fear came on all that dwelt round about them: and all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judaea.
Luke 1:66	And all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, What manner of child shall this be! And the hand of the Lord was with him.
Luke 1:67	And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Ghost, and prophesied, saying,
Luke 1:68	Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; for he hath visited and redeemed his people,
Luke 1:69	And hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David;
Luke 1:70	As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began:
Luke 1:71	That we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all that hate us;
Luke 1:72	To perform the mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant;
Luke 1:73	The oath which he sware to our father Abraham,
Luke 1:74	That he would grant unto us, that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear,
Luke 1:75	In holiness and righteousness before him, all the days of our life.
Luke 1:76	And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways;
Luke 1:77	To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins,
Luke 1:78	Through the tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us,
Luke 1:79	To give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.
Luke 1:80	And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, and was in the deserts till the day of his shewing unto Israel.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 2
Luke 2:1	And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed.
Luke 2:2	(And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria.)
Luke 2:3	And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city.
Luke 2:4	And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem; (because he was of the house and lineage of David:)
Luke 2:5	To be taxed with Mary his espoused wife, being great with child.
Luke 2:6	And so it was, that, while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered.
Luke 2:7	And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn.
Luke 2:8	And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night.
Luke 2:9	And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid.
Luke 2:10	And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.
Luke 2:11	For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.
Luke 2:12	And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.
Luke 2:13	And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying,
Luke 2:14	Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.
Luke 2:15	And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us.
Luke 2:16	And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger.
Luke 2:17	And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child.
Luke 2:18	And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds.
Luke 2:19	But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart.
Luke 2:20	And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.
Luke 2:21	And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, his name was called JESUS, which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
Luke 2:22	And when the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord;
Luke 2:23	(As it is written in the law of the LORD, Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord;)
Luke 2:24	And to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord, A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.
Luke 2:25	And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon; and the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel: and the Holy Ghost was upon him.
Luke 2:26	And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Lord's Christ.
Luke 2:27	And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of the law,
Luke 2:28	Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said,
Luke 2:29	Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word:
Luke 2:30	For mine eyes have seen thy salvation,
Luke 2:31	Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people;
Luke 2:32	A light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel.
Luke 2:33	And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things which were spoken of him.
Luke 2:34	And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against;
Luke 2:35	(Yea, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also,) that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.
Luke 2:36	And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity;
Luke 2:37	And she was a widow of about fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day.
Luke 2:38	And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem.
Luke 2:39	And when they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.
Luke 2:40	And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him.
Luke 2:41	Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the passover.
Luke 2:42	And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast.
Luke 2:43	And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother knew not of it.
Luke 2:44	But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's journey; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance.
Luke 2:45	And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him.
Luke 2:46	And it came to pass, that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking them questions.
Luke 2:47	And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers.
Luke 2:48	And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing.
Luke 2:49	And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?
Luke 2:50	And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them.
Luke 2:51	And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them: but his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.
Luke 2:52	And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 3
Luke 3:1	Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituraea and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene,
Luke 3:2	Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.
Luke 3:3	And he came into all the country about Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins;
Luke 3:4	As it is written in the book of the words of Esaias the prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
Luke 3:5	Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough ways shall be made smooth;
Luke 3:6	And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.
Luke 3:7	Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Luke 3:8	Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, That God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham.
Luke 3:9	And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: every tree therefore which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
Luke 3:10	And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then?
Luke 3:11	He answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.
Luke 3:12	Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him, Master, what shall we do?
Luke 3:13	And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you.
Luke 3:14	And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely; and be content with your wages.
Luke 3:15	And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in their hearts of John, whether he were the Christ, or not;
Luke 3:16	John answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire:
Luke 3:17	Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable.
Luke 3:18	And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people.
Luke 3:19	But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done,
Luke 3:20	Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison.
Luke 3:21	Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened,
Luke 3:22	And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased.
Luke 3:23	And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as was supposed) the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli,
Luke 3:24	Which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, which was the son of Melchi, which was the son of Janna, which was the son of Joseph,
Luke 3:25	Which was the son of Mattathias, which was the son of Amos, which was the son of Naum, which was the son of Esli, which was the son of Nagge,
Luke 3:26	Which was the son of Maath, which was the son of Mattathias, which was the son of Semei, which was the son of Joseph, which was the son of Juda,
Luke 3:27	Which was the son of Joanna, which was the son of Rhesa, which was the son of Zorobabel, which was the son of Salathiel, which was the son of Neri,
Luke 3:28	Which was the son of Melchi, which was the son of Addi, which was the son of Cosam, which was the son of Elmodam, which was the son of Er,
Luke 3:29	Which was the son of Jose, which was the son of Eliezer, which was the son of Jorim, which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi,
Luke 3:30	Which was the son of Simeon, which was the son of Juda, which was the son of Joseph, which was the son of Jonan, which was the son of Eliakim,
Luke 3:31	Which was the son of Melea, which was the son of Menan, which was the son of Mattatha, which was the son of Nathan, which was the son of David,
Luke 3:32	Which was the son of Jesse, which was the son of Obed, which was the son of Booz, which was the son of Salmon, which was the son of Naasson,
Luke 3:33	Which was the son of Aminadab, which was the son of Aram, which was the son of Esrom, which was the son of Phares, which was the son of Juda,
Luke 3:34	Which was the son of Jacob, which was the son of Isaac, which was the son of Abraham, which was the son of Thara, which was the son of Nachor,
Luke 3:35	Which was the son of Saruch, which was the son of Ragau, which was the son of Phalec, which was the son of Heber, which was the son of Sala,
Luke 3:36	Which was the son of Cainan, which was the son of Arphaxad, which was the son of Sem, which was the son of Noe, which was the son of Lamech,
Luke 3:37	Which was the son of Mathusala, which was the son of Enoch, which was the son of Jared, which was the son of Maleleel, which was the son of Cainan,
Luke 3:38	Which was the son of Enos, which was the son of Seth, which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 4
Luke 4:1	And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness,
Luke 4:2	Being forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing: and when they were ended, he afterward hungered.
Luke 4:3	And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command this stone that it be made bread.
Luke 4:4	And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.
Luke 4:5	And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, shewed unto him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
Luke 4:6	And the devil said unto him, All this power will I give thee, and the glory of them: for that is delivered unto me; and to whomsoever I will I give it.
Luke 4:7	If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine.
Luke 4:8	And Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.
Luke 4:9	And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down from hence:
Luke 4:10	For it is written, He shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee:
Luke 4:11	And in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.
Luke 4:12	And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
Luke 4:13	And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season.
Luke 4:14	And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and there went out a fame of him through all the region round about.
Luke 4:15	And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all.
Luke 4:16	And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for to read.
Luke 4:17	And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written,
Luke 4:18	The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised,
Luke 4:19	To preach the acceptable year of the Lord.
Luke 4:20	And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him.
Luke 4:21	And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears.
Luke 4:22	And all bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
Luke 4:23	And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country.
Luke 4:24	And he said, Verily I say unto you, No prophet is accepted in his own country.
Luke 4:25	But I tell you of a truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land;
Luke 4:26	But unto none of them was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow.
Luke 4:27	And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Eliseus the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian.
Luke 4:28	And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath,
Luke 4:29	And rose up, and thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong.
Luke 4:30	But he passing through the midst of them went his way,
Luke 4:31	And came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath days.
Luke 4:32	And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was with power.
Luke 4:33	And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a spirit of an unclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice,
Luke 4:34	Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God.
Luke 4:35	And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him, and hurt him not.
Luke 4:36	And they were all amazed, and spake among themselves, saying, What a word is this! for with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out.
Luke 4:37	And the fame of him went out into every place of the country round about.
Luke 4:38	And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever; and they besought him for her.
Luke 4:39	And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her: and immediately she arose and ministered unto them.
Luke 4:40	Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with divers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them.
Luke 4:41	And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God. And he rebuking them suffered them not to speak: for they knew that he was Christ.
Luke 4:42	And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place: and the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he should not depart from them.
Luke 4:43	And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also: for therefore am I sent.
Luke 4:44	And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 5
Luke 5:1	And it came to pass, that, as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret,
Luke 5:2	And saw two ships standing by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nets.
Luke 5:3	And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he sat down, and taught the people out of the ship.
Luke 5:4	Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.
Luke 5:5	And Simon answering said unto him, Master, we have toiled all the night, and have taken nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net.
Luke 5:6	And when they had this done, they inclosed a great multitude of fishes: and their net brake.
Luke 5:7	And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink.
Luke 5:8	When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord.
Luke 5:9	For he was astonished, and all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which they had taken:
Luke 5:10	And so was also James, and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men.
Luke 5:11	And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all, and followed him.
Luke 5:12	And it came to pass, when he was in a certain city, behold a man full of leprosy: who seeing Jesus fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
Luke 5:13	And he put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will: be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him.
Luke 5:14	And he charged him to tell no man: but go, and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.
Luke 5:15	But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him: and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities.
Luke 5:16	And he withdrew himself into the wilderness, and prayed.
Luke 5:17	And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was present to heal them.
Luke 5:18	And, behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a palsy: and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before him.
Luke 5:19	And when they could not find by what way they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went upon the housetop, and let him down through the tiling with his couch into the midst before Jesus.
Luke 5:20	And when he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee.
Luke 5:21	And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?
Luke 5:22	But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said unto them, What reason ye in your hearts?
Luke 5:23	Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk?
Luke 5:24	But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power upon earth to forgive sins, (he said unto the sick of the palsy,) I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go into thine house.
Luke 5:25	And immediately he rose up before them, and took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God.
Luke 5:26	And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things to day.
Luke 5:27	And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow me.
Luke 5:28	And he left all, rose up, and followed him.
Luke 5:29	And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them.
Luke 5:30	But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners?
Luke 5:31	And Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician; but they that are sick.
Luke 5:32	I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
Luke 5:33	And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast often, and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink?
Luke 5:34	And he said unto them, Can ye make the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them?
Luke 5:35	But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days.
Luke 5:36	And he spake also a parable unto them; No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon an old; if otherwise, then both the new maketh a rent, and the piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the old.
Luke 5:37	And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new wine will burst the bottles, and be spilled, and the bottles shall perish.
Luke 5:38	But new wine must be put into new bottles; and both are preserved.
Luke 5:39	No man also having drunk old wine straightway desireth new: for he saith, The old is better.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 6
Luke 6:1	And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that he went through the corn fields; and his disciples plucked the ears of corn, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands.
Luke 6:2	And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, Why do ye that which is not lawful to do on the sabbath days?
Luke 6:3	And Jesus answering them said, Have ye not read so much as this, what David did, when himself was an hungred, and they which were with him;
Luke 6:4	How he went into the house of God, and did take and eat the shewbread, and gave also to them that were with him; which it is not lawful to eat but for the priests alone?
Luke 6:5	And he said unto them, That the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
Luke 6:6	And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right hand was withered.
Luke 6:7	And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal on the sabbath day; that they might find an accusation against him.
Luke 6:8	But he knew their thoughts, and said to the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose and stood forth.
Luke 6:9	Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it?
Luke 6:10	And looking round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other.
Luke 6:11	And they were filled with madness; and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus.
Luke 6:12	And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.
Luke 6:13	And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles;
Luke 6:14	Simon, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
Luke 6:15	Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes,
Luke 6:16	And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor.
Luke 6:17	And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;
Luke 6:18	And they that were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed.
Luke 6:19	And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all.
Luke 6:20	And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed be ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God.
Luke 6:21	Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh.
Luke 6:22	Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake.
Luke 6:23	Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets.
Luke 6:24	But woe unto you that are rich! for ye have received your consolation.
Luke 6:25	Woe unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you that laugh now! for ye shall mourn and weep.
Luke 6:26	Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets.
Luke 6:27	But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you,
Luke 6:28	Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you.
Luke 6:29	And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that taketh away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coat also.
Luke 6:30	Give to every man that asketh of thee; and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them not again.
Luke 6:31	And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise.
Luke 6:32	For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? for sinners also love those that love them.
Luke 6:33	And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye? for sinners also do even the same.
Luke 6:34	And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again.
Luke 6:35	But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil.
Luke 6:36	Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.
Luke 6:37	Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven:
Luke 6:38	Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again.
Luke 6:39	And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch?
Luke 6:40	The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as his master.
Luke 6:41	And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
Luke 6:42	Either how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye.
Luke 6:43	For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
Luke 6:44	For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes.
Luke 6:45	A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh.
Luke 6:46	And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?
Luke 6:47	Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeth them, I will shew you to whom he is like:
Luke 6:48	He is like a man which built an house, and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and could not shake it: for it was founded upon a rock.
Luke 6:49	But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 7
Luke 7:1	Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
Luke 7:2	And a certain centurion's servant, who was dear unto him, was sick, and ready to die.
Luke 7:3	And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant.
Luke 7:4	And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying, That he was worthy for whom he should do this:
Luke 7:5	For he loveth our nation, and he hath built us a synagogue.
Luke 7:6	Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof:
Luke 7:7	Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee: but say in a word, and my servant shall be healed.
Luke 7:8	For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.
Luke 7:9	When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him, and turned him about, and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.
Luke 7:10	And they that were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole that had been sick.
Luke 7:11	And it came to pass the day after, that he went into a city called Nain; and many of his disciples went with him, and much people.
Luke 7:12	Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow: and much people of the city was with her.
Luke 7:13	And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not.
Luke 7:14	And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise.
Luke 7:15	And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother.
Luke 7:16	And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people.
Luke 7:17	And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judaea, and throughout all the region round about.
Luke 7:18	And the disciples of John shewed him of all these things.
Luke 7:19	And John calling unto him two of his disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another?
Luke 7:20	When the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another?
Luke 7:21	And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto many that were blind he gave sight.
Luke 7:22	Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached.
Luke 7:23	And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.
Luke 7:24	And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness for to see? A reed shaken with the wind?
Luke 7:25	But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they which are gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts.
Luke 7:26	But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet.
Luke 7:27	This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
Luke 7:28	For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
Luke 7:29	And all the people that heard him, and the publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
Luke 7:30	But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves, being not baptized of him.
Luke 7:31	And the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? and to what are they like?
Luke 7:32	They are like unto children sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, and saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned to you, and ye have not wept.
Luke 7:33	For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a devil.
Luke 7:34	The Son of man is come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold a gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners!
Luke 7:35	But wisdom is justified of all her children.
Luke 7:36	And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house, and sat down to meat.
Luke 7:37	And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment,
Luke 7:38	And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment.
Luke 7:39	Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for she is a sinner.
Luke 7:40	And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he saith, Master, say on.
Luke 7:41	There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty.
Luke 7:42	And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most?
Luke 7:43	Simon answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged.
Luke 7:44	And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head.
Luke 7:45	Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came in hath not ceased to kiss my feet.
Luke 7:46	My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment.
Luke 7:47	Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little.
Luke 7:48	And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven.
Luke 7:49	And they that sat at meat with him began to say within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also?
Luke 7:50	And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 8
Luke 8:1	And it came to pass afterward, that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him,
Luke 8:2	And certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils,
Luke 8:3	And Joanna the wife of Chuza Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance.
Luke 8:4	And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable:
Luke 8:5	A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it.
Luke 8:6	And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture.
Luke 8:7	And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it.
Luke 8:8	And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
Luke 8:9	And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be?
Luke 8:10	And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to others in parables; that seeing they might not see, and hearing they might not understand.
Luke 8:11	Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
Luke 8:12	Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved.
Luke 8:13	They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away.
Luke 8:14	And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection.
Luke 8:15	But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience.
Luke 8:16	No man, when he hath lighted a candle, covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed; but setteth it on a candlestick, that they which enter in may see the light.
Luke 8:17	For nothing is secret, that shall not be made manifest; neither any thing hid, that shall not be known and come abroad.
Luke 8:18	Take heed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shall be given; and whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to have.
Luke 8:19	Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come at him for the press.
Luke 8:20	And it was told him by certain which said, Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to see thee.
Luke 8:21	And he answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are these which hear the word of God, and do it.
Luke 8:22	Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a ship with his disciples: and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth.
Luke 8:23	But as they sailed he fell asleep: and there came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy.
Luke 8:24	And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we perish. Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water: and they ceased, and there was a calm.
Luke 8:25	And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they being afraid wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this! for he commandeth even the winds and water, and they obey him.
Luke 8:26	And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee.
Luke 8:27	And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man, which had devils long time, and ware no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs.
Luke 8:28	When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God most high? I beseech thee, torment me not.
Luke 8:29	(For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters; and he brake the bands, and was driven of the devil into the wilderness.)
Luke 8:30	And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion: because many devils were entered into him.
Luke 8:31	And they besought him that he would not command them to go out into the deep.
Luke 8:32	And there was there an herd of many swine feeding on the mountain: and they besought him that he would suffer them to enter into them. And he suffered them.
Luke 8:33	Then went the devils out of the man, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake, and were choked.
Luke 8:34	When they that fed them saw what was done, they fled, and went and told it in the city and in the country.
Luke 8:35	Then they went out to see what was done; and came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.
Luke 8:36	They also which saw it told them by what means he that was possessed of the devils was healed.
Luke 8:37	Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes round about besought him to depart from them; for they were taken with great fear: and he went up into the ship, and returned back again.
Luke 8:38	Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him that he might be with him: but Jesus sent him away, saying,
Luke 8:39	Return to thine own house, and shew how great things God hath done unto thee. And he went his way, and published throughout the whole city how great things Jesus had done unto him.
Luke 8:40	And it came to pass, that, when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him: for they were all waiting for him.
Luke 8:41	And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus' feet, and besought him that he would come into his house:
Luke 8:42	For he had one only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went the people thronged him.
Luke 8:43	And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which had spent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any,
Luke 8:44	Came behind him, and touched the border of his garment: and immediately her issue of blood stanched.
Luke 8:45	And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they that were with him said, Master, the multitude throng thee and press thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?
Luke 8:46	And Jesus said, Somebody hath touched me: for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me.
Luke 8:47	And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling, and falling down before him, she declared unto him before all the people for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately.
Luke 8:48	And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace.
Luke 8:49	While he yet spake, there cometh one from the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead; trouble not the Master.
Luke 8:50	But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not: believe only, and she shall be made whole.
Luke 8:51	And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in, save Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden.
Luke 8:52	And all wept, and bewailed her: but he said, Weep not; she is not dead, but sleepeth.
Luke 8:53	And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead.
Luke 8:54	And he put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called, saying, Maid, arise.
Luke 8:55	And her spirit came again, and she arose straightway: and he commanded to give her meat.
Luke 8:56	And her parents were astonished: but he charged them that they should tell no man what was done.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 9
Luke 9:1	Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases.
Luke 9:2	And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.
Luke 9:3	And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece.
Luke 9:4	And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart.
Luke 9:5	And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them.
Luke 9:6	And they departed, and went through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing every where.
Luke 9:7	Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and he was perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was risen from the dead;
Luke 9:8	And of some, that Elias had appeared; and of others, that one of the old prophets was risen again.
Luke 9:9	And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see him.
Luke 9:10	And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them, and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.
Luke 9:11	And the people, when they knew it, followed him: and he received them, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing.
Luke 9:12	And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the towns and country round about, and lodge, and get victuals: for we are here in a desert place.
Luke 9:13	But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy meat for all this people.
Luke 9:14	For they were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company.
Luke 9:15	And they did so, and made them all sit down.
Luke 9:16	Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude.
Luke 9:17	And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets.
Luke 9:18	And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am?
Luke 9:19	They answering said, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; and others say, that one of the old prophets is risen again.
Luke 9:20	He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ of God.
Luke 9:21	And he straitly charged them, and commanded them to tell no man that thing;
Luke 9:22	Saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day.
Luke 9:23	And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me.
Luke 9:24	For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it.
Luke 9:25	For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and lose himself, or be cast away?
Luke 9:26	For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory, and in his Father's, and of the holy angels.
Luke 9:27	But I tell you of a truth, there be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God.
Luke 9:28	And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings, he took Peter and John and James, and went up into a mountain to pray.
Luke 9:29	And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistering.
Luke 9:30	And, behold, there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias:
Luke 9:31	Who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease which he should accomplish at Jerusalem.
Luke 9:32	But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep: and when they were awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him.
Luke 9:33	And it came to pass, as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: not knowing what he said.
Luke 9:34	While he thus spake, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: and they feared as they entered into the cloud.
Luke 9:35	And there came a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him.
Luke 9:36	And when the voice was past, Jesus was found alone. And they kept it close, and told no man in those days any of those things which they had seen.
Luke 9:37	And it came to pass, that on the next day, when they were come down from the hill, much people met him.
Luke 9:38	And, behold, a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son: for he is mine only child.
Luke 9:39	And, lo, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out; and it teareth him that he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him.
Luke 9:40	And I besought thy disciples to cast him out; and they could not.
Luke 9:41	And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you, and suffer you? Bring thy son hither.
Luke 9:42	And as he was yet a coming, the devil threw him down, and tare him. And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father.
Luke 9:43	And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while they wondered every one at all things which Jesus did, he said unto his disciples,
Luke 9:44	Let these sayings sink down into your ears: for the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men.
Luke 9:45	But they understood not this saying, and it was hid from them, that they perceived it not: and they feared to ask him of that saying.
Luke 9:46	Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them should be greatest.
Luke 9:47	And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child, and set him by him,
Luke 9:48	And said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, the same shall be great.
Luke 9:49	And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name; and we forbad him, because he followeth not with us.
Luke 9:50	And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that is not against us is for us.
Luke 9:51	And it came to pass, when the time was come that he should be received up, he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem,
Luke 9:52	And sent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him.
Luke 9:53	And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem.
Luke 9:54	And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consume them, even as Elias did?
Luke 9:55	But he turned, and rebuked them, and said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.
Luke 9:56	For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went to another village.
Luke 9:57	And it came to pass, that, as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.
Luke 9:58	And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.
Luke 9:59	And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.
Luke 9:60	Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead: but go thou and preach the kingdom of God.
Luke 9:61	And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house.
Luke 9:62	And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 10
Luke 10:1	After these things the LORD appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face into every city and place, whither he himself would come.
Luke 10:2	Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the labourers are few: pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth labourers into his harvest.
Luke 10:3	Go your ways: behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves.
Luke 10:4	Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes: and salute no man by the way.
Luke 10:5	And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house.
Luke 10:6	And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it: if not, it shall turn to you again.
Luke 10:7	And in the same house remain, eating and drinking such things as they give: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not from house to house.
Luke 10:8	And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you:
Luke 10:9	And heal the sick that are therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
Luke 10:10	But into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go your ways out into the streets of the same, and say,
Luke 10:11	Even the very dust of your city, which cleaveth on us, we do wipe off against you: notwithstanding be ye sure of this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
Luke 10:12	But I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable in that day for Sodom, than for that city.
Luke 10:13	Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in you, they had a great while ago repented, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
Luke 10:14	But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment, than for you.
Luke 10:15	And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven, shalt be thrust down to hell.
Luke 10:16	He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth you despiseth me; and he that despiseth me despiseth him that sent me.
Luke 10:17	And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name.
Luke 10:18	And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven.
Luke 10:19	Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt you.
Luke 10:20	Notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the spirits are subject unto you; but rather rejoice, because your names are written in heaven.
Luke 10:21	In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes: even so, Father; for so it seemed good in thy sight.
Luke 10:22	All things are delivered to me of my Father: and no man knoweth who the Son is, but the Father; and who the Father is, but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him.
Luke 10:23	And he turned him unto his disciples, and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see:
Luke 10:24	For I tell you, that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them.
Luke 10:25	And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
Luke 10:26	He said unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou?
Luke 10:27	And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.
Luke 10:28	And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live.
Luke 10:29	But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbour?
Luke 10:30	And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.
Luke 10:31	And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
Luke 10:32	And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.
Luke 10:33	But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him,
Luke 10:34	And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
Luke 10:35	And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.
Luke 10:36	Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?
Luke 10:37	And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.
Luke 10:38	Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a certain village: and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
Luke 10:39	And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word.
Luke 10:40	But Martha was cumbered about much serving, and came to him, and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? bid her therefore that she help me.
Luke 10:41	And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things:
Luke 10:42	But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 11
Luke 11:1	And it came to pass, that, as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.
Luke 11:2	And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth.
Luke 11:3	Give us day by day our daily bread.
Luke 11:4	And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil.
Luke 11:5	And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves;
Luke 11:6	For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him?
Luke 11:7	And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee.
Luke 11:8	I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth.
Luke 11:9	And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
Luke 11:10	For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
Luke 11:11	If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent?
Luke 11:12	Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion?
Luke 11:13	If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?
Luke 11:14	And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass, when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake; and the people wondered.
Luke 11:15	But some of them said, He casteth out devils through Beelzebub the chief of the devils.
Luke 11:16	And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven.
Luke 11:17	But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and a house divided against a house falleth.
Luke 11:18	If Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub.
Luke 11:19	And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges.
Luke 11:20	But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you.
Luke 11:21	When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace:
Luke 11:22	But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted, and divideth his spoils.
Luke 11:23	He that is not with me is against me: and he that gathereth not with me scattereth.
Luke 11:24	When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest; and finding none, he saith, I will return unto my house whence I came out.
Luke 11:25	And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished.
Luke 11:26	Then goeth he, and taketh to him seven other spirits more wicked than himself; and they enter in, and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first.
Luke 11:27	And it came to pass, as he spake these things, a certain woman of the company lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Blessed is the womb that bare thee, and the paps which thou hast sucked.
Luke 11:28	But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God, and keep it.
Luke 11:29	And when the people were gathered thick together, he began to say, This is an evil generation: they seek a sign; and there shall no sign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet.
Luke 11:30	For as Jonas was a sign unto the Ninevites, so shall also the Son of man be to this generation.
Luke 11:31	The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and condemn them: for she came from the utmost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here.
Luke 11:32	The men of Nineve shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here.
Luke 11:33	No man, when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a secret place, neither under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that they which come in may see the light.
Luke 11:34	The light of the body is the eye: therefore when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light; but when thine eye is evil, thy body also is full of darkness.
Luke 11:35	Take heed therefore that the light which is in thee be not darkness.
Luke 11:36	If thy whole body therefore be full of light, having no part dark, the whole shall be full of light, as when the bright shining of a candle doth give thee light.
Luke 11:37	And as he spake, a certain Pharisee besought him to dine with him: and he went in, and sat down to meat.
Luke 11:38	And when the Pharisee saw it, he marvelled that he had not first washed before dinner.
Luke 11:39	And the Lord said unto him, Now do ye Pharisees make clean the outside of the cup and the platter; but your inward part is full of ravening and wickedness.
Luke 11:40	Ye fools, did not he that made that which is without make that which is within also?
Luke 11:41	But rather give alms of such things as ye have; and, behold, all things are clean unto you.
Luke 11:42	But woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye tithe mint and rue and all manner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the love of God: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.
Luke 11:43	Woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye love the uppermost seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the markets.
Luke 11:44	Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are as graves which appear not, and the men that walk over them are not aware of them.
Luke 11:45	Then answered one of the lawyers, and said unto him, Master, thus saying thou reproachest us also.
Luke 11:46	And he said, Woe unto you also, ye lawyers! for ye lade men with burdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers.
Luke 11:47	Woe unto you! for ye build the sepulchres of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.
Luke 11:48	Truly ye bear witness that ye allow the deeds of your fathers: for they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchres.
Luke 11:49	Therefore also said the wisdom of God, I will send them prophets and apostles, and some of them they shall slay and persecute:
Luke 11:50	That the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation;
Luke 11:51	From the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zacharias which perished between the altar and the temple: verily I say unto you, It shall be required of this generation.
Luke 11:52	Woe unto you, lawyers! for ye have taken away the key of knowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in ye hindered.
Luke 11:53	And as he said these things unto them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to urge him vehemently, and to provoke him to speak of many things:
Luke 11:54	Laying wait for him, and seeking to catch something out of his mouth, that they might accuse him.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 12
Luke 12:1	In the mean time, when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trode one upon another, he began to say unto his disciples first of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
Luke 12:2	For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; neither hid, that shall not be known.
Luke 12:3	Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness shall be heard in the light; and that which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shall be proclaimed upon the housetops.
Luke 12:4	And I say unto you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.
Luke 12:5	But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I say unto you, Fear him.
Luke 12:6	Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of them is forgotten before God?
Luke 12:7	But even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are of more value than many sparrows.
Luke 12:8	Also I say unto you, Whosoever shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God:
Luke 12:9	But he that denieth me before men shall be denied before the angels of God.
Luke 12:10	And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy Ghost it shall not be forgiven.
Luke 12:11	And when they bring you unto the synagogues, and unto magistrates, and powers, take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall answer, or what ye shall say:
Luke 12:12	For the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what ye ought to say.
Luke 12:13	And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my brother, that he divide the inheritance with me.
Luke 12:14	And he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you?
Luke 12:15	And he said unto them, Take heed, and beware of covetousness: for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth.
Luke 12:16	And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully:
Luke 12:17	And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits?
Luke 12:18	And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods.
Luke 12:19	And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.
Luke 12:20	But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided?
Luke 12:21	So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.
Luke 12:22	And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body, what ye shall put on.
Luke 12:23	The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment.
Luke 12:24	Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; which neither have storehouse nor barn; and God feedeth them: how much more are ye better than the fowls?
Luke 12:25	And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit?
Luke 12:26	If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest?
Luke 12:27	Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, they spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Luke 12:28	If then God so clothe the grass, which is to day in the field, and to morrow is cast into the oven; how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith?
Luke 12:29	And seek not ye what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind.
Luke 12:30	For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.
Luke 12:31	But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you.
Luke 12:32	Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.
Luke 12:33	Sell that ye have, and give alms; provide yourselves bags which wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where no thief approacheth, neither moth corrupteth.
Luke 12:34	For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Luke 12:35	Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning;
Luke 12:36	And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding; that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately.
Luke 12:37	Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them to sit down to meat, and will come forth and serve them.
Luke 12:38	And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants.
Luke 12:39	And this know, that if the goodman of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched, and not have suffered his house to be broken through.
Luke 12:40	Be ye therefore ready also: for the Son of man cometh at an hour when ye think not.
Luke 12:41	Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even to all?
Luke 12:42	And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of meat in due season?
Luke 12:43	Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing.
Luke 12:44	Of a truth I say unto you, that he will make him ruler over all that he hath.
Luke 12:45	But and if that servant say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken;
Luke 12:46	The lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers.
Luke 12:47	And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes.
Luke 12:48	But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required: and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more.
Luke 12:49	I am come to send fire on the earth; and what will I, if it be already kindled?
Luke 12:50	But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished!
Luke 12:51	Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division:
Luke 12:52	For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.
Luke 12:53	The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.
Luke 12:54	And he said also to the people, When ye see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower; and so it is.
Luke 12:55	And when ye see the south wind blow, ye say, There will be heat; and it cometh to pass.
Luke 12:56	Ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky and of the earth; but how is it that ye do not discern this time?
Luke 12:57	Yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?
Luke 12:58	When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him; lest he hale thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison.
Luke 12:59	I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence, till thou hast paid the very last mite.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 13
Luke 13:1	There were present at that season some that told him of the Galilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
Luke 13:2	And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because they suffered such things?
Luke 13:3	I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.
Luke 13:4	Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slew them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem?
Luke 13:5	I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.
Luke 13:6	He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none.
Luke 13:7	Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?
Luke 13:8	And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it:
Luke 13:9	And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down.
Luke 13:10	And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.
Luke 13:11	And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up herself.
Luke 13:12	And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity.
Luke 13:13	And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God.
Luke 13:14	And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day.
Luke 13:15	The Lord then answered him, and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering?
Luke 13:16	And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?
Luke 13:17	And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.
Luke 13:18	Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? and whereunto shall I resemble it?
Luke 13:19	It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and cast into his garden; and it grew, and waxed a great tree; and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it.
Luke 13:20	And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God?
Luke 13:21	It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.
Luke 13:22	And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem.
Luke 13:23	Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them,
Luke 13:24	Strive to enter in at the strait gate: for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able.
Luke 13:25	When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us; and he shall answer and say unto you, I know you not whence ye are:
Luke 13:26	Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets.
Luke 13:27	But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.
Luke 13:28	There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out.
Luke 13:29	And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and from the north, and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God.
Luke 13:30	And, behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last.
Luke 13:31	The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying unto him, Get thee out, and depart hence: for Herod will kill thee.
Luke 13:32	And he said unto them, Go ye, and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and I do cures to day and to morrow, and the third day I shall be perfected.
Luke 13:33	Nevertheless I must walk to day, and to morrow, and the day following: for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.
Luke 13:34	O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not!
Luke 13:35	Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 14
Luke 14:1	And it came to pass, as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath day, that they watched him.
Luke 14:2	And, behold, there was a certain man before him which had the dropsy.
Luke 14:3	And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day?
Luke 14:4	And they held their peace. And he took him, and healed him, and let him go;
Luke 14:5	And answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the sabbath day?
Luke 14:6	And they could not answer him again to these things.
Luke 14:7	And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms; saying unto them.
Luke 14:8	When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room; lest a more honourable man than thou be bidden of him;
Luke 14:9	And he that bade thee and him come and say to thee, Give this man place; and thou begin with shame to take the lowest room.
Luke 14:10	But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room; that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, Friend, go up higher: then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee.
Luke 14:11	For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.
Luke 14:12	Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbours; lest they also bid thee again, and a recompence be made thee.
Luke 14:13	But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind:
Luke 14:14	And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just.
Luke 14:15	And when one of them that sat at meat with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God.
Luke 14:16	Then said he unto him, A certain man made a great supper, and bade many:
Luke 14:17	And sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready.
Luke 14:18	And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it: I pray thee have me excused.
Luke 14:19	And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee have me excused.
Luke 14:20	And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.
Luke 14:21	So that servant came, and shewed his lord these things. Then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind.
Luke 14:22	And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room.
Luke 14:23	And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled.
Luke 14:24	For I say unto you, That none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper.
Luke 14:25	And there went great multitudes with him: and he turned, and said unto them,
Luke 14:26	If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:27	And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:28	For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it?
Luke 14:29	Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him,
Luke 14:30	Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish.
Luke 14:31	Or what king, going to make war against another king, sitteth not down first, and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand?
Luke 14:32	Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he sendeth an ambassage, and desireth conditions of peace.
Luke 14:33	So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:34	Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned?
Luke 14:35	It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dunghill; but men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 15
Luke 15:1	Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him.
Luke 15:2	And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.
Luke 15:3	And he spake this parable unto them, saying,
Luke 15:4	What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?
Luke 15:5	And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
Luke 15:6	And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost.
Luke 15:7	I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.
Luke 15:8	Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it?
Luke 15:9	And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I had lost.
Luke 15:10	Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.
Luke 15:11	And he said, A certain man had two sons:
Luke 15:12	And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living.
Luke 15:13	And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living.
Luke 15:14	And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want.
Luke 15:15	And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.
Luke 15:16	And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him.
Luke 15:17	And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger!
Luke 15:18	I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee,
Luke 15:19	And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants.
Luke 15:20	And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.
Luke 15:21	And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son.
Luke 15:22	But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet:
Luke 15:23	And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry:
Luke 15:24	For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.
Luke 15:25	Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard musick and dancing.
Luke 15:26	And he called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant.
Luke 15:27	And he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound.
Luke 15:28	And he was angry, and would not go in: therefore came his father out, and intreated him.
Luke 15:29	And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends:
Luke 15:30	But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf.
Luke 15:31	And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine.
Luke 15:32	It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 16
Luke 16:1	And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man, which had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods.
Luke 16:2	And he called him, and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? give an account of thy stewardship; for thou mayest be no longer steward.
Luke 16:3	Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? for my lord taketh away from me the stewardship: I cannot dig; to beg I am ashamed.
Luke 16:4	I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses.
Luke 16:5	So he called every one of his lord's debtors unto him, and said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my lord?
Luke 16:6	And he said, An hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty.
Luke 16:7	Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, An hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and write fourscore.
Luke 16:8	And the lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely: for the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light.
Luke 16:9	And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations.
Luke 16:10	He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much: and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much.
Luke 16:11	If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?
Luke 16:12	And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give you that which is your own?
Luke 16:13	No servant can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
Luke 16:14	And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things: and they derided him.
Luke 16:15	And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves before men; but God knoweth your hearts: for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God.
Luke 16:16	The law and the prophets were until John: since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it.
Luke 16:17	And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail.
Luke 16:18	Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and whosoever marrieth her that is put away from her husband committeth adultery.
Luke 16:19	There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day:
Luke 16:20	And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores,
Luke 16:21	And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.
Luke 16:22	And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried;
Luke 16:23	And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
Luke 16:24	And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.
Luke 16:25	But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.
Luke 16:26	And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would come from thence.
Luke 16:27	Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house:
Luke 16:28	For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
Luke 16:29	Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
Luke 16:30	And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent.
Luke 16:31	And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 17
Luke 17:1	Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible but that offences will come: but woe unto him, through whom they come!
Luke 17:2	It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones.
Luke 17:3	Take heed to yourselves: If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.
Luke 17:4	And if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt forgive him.
Luke 17:5	And the apostles said unto the Lord, Increase our faith.
Luke 17:6	And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you.
Luke 17:7	But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle, will say unto him by and by, when he is come from the field, Go and sit down to meat?
Luke 17:8	And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink?
Luke 17:9	Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not.
Luke 17:10	So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our duty to do.
Luke 17:11	And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
Luke 17:12	And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off:
Luke 17:13	And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
Luke 17:14	And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed.
Luke 17:15	And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God,
Luke 17:16	And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.
Luke 17:17	And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? but where are the nine?
Luke 17:18	There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger.
Luke 17:19	And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole.
Luke 17:20	And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation:
Luke 17:21	Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.
Luke 17:22	And he said unto the disciples, The days will come, when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye shall not see it.
Luke 17:23	And they shall say to you, See here; or, see there: go not after them, nor follow them.
Luke 17:24	For as the lightning, that lighteneth out of the one part under heaven, shineth unto the other part under heaven; so shall also the Son of man be in his day.
Luke 17:25	But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of this generation.
Luke 17:26	And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man.
Luke 17:27	They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed them all.
Luke 17:28	Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded;
Luke 17:29	But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all.
Luke 17:30	Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed.
Luke 17:31	In that day, he which shall be upon the housetop, and his stuff in the house, let him not come down to take it away: and he that is in the field, let him likewise not return back.
Luke 17:32	Remember Lot's wife.
Luke 17:33	Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it.
Luke 17:34	I tell you, in that night there shall be two men in one bed; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.
Luke 17:35	Two women shall be grinding together; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Luke 17:36	Two men shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Luke 17:37	And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Wheresoever the body is, thither will the eagles be gathered together.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 18
Luke 18:1	And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray, and not to faint;
Luke 18:2	Saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man:
Luke 18:3	And there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary.
Luke 18:4	And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man;
Luke 18:5	Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.
Luke 18:6	And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith.
Luke 18:7	And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them?
Luke 18:8	I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?
Luke 18:9	And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others:
Luke 18:10	Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican.
Luke 18:11	The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican.
Luke 18:12	I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.
Luke 18:13	And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner.
Luke 18:14	I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.
Luke 18:15	And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them: but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.
Luke 18:16	But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.
Luke 18:17	Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein.
Luke 18:18	And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
Luke 18:19	And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good, save one, that is, God.
Luke 18:20	Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honour thy father and thy mother.
Luke 18:21	And he said, All these have I kept from my youth up.
Luke 18:22	Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
Luke 18:23	And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful: for he was very rich.
Luke 18:24	And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!
Luke 18:25	For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
Luke 18:26	And they that heard it said, Who then can be saved?
Luke 18:27	And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.
Luke 18:28	Then Peter said, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee.
Luke 18:29	And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God's sake,
Luke 18:30	Who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting.
Luke 18:31	Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished.
Luke 18:32	For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on:
Luke 18:33	And they shall scourge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise again.
Luke 18:34	And they understood none of these things: and this saying was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken.
Luke 18:35	And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way side begging:
Luke 18:36	And hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant.
Luke 18:37	And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by.
Luke 18:38	And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.
Luke 18:39	And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.
Luke 18:40	And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be brought unto him: and when he was come near, he asked him,
Luke 18:41	Saying, What wilt thou that I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.
Luke 18:42	And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved thee.
Luke 18:43	And immediately he received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 19
Luke 19:1	And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho.
Luke 19:2	And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich.
Luke 19:3	And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the press, because he was little of stature.
Luke 19:4	And he ran before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see him: for he was to pass that way.
Luke 19:5	And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to day I must abide at thy house.
Luke 19:6	And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.
Luke 19:7	And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner.
Luke 19:8	And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.
Luke 19:9	And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, forsomuch as he also is a son of Abraham.
Luke 19:10	For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.
Luke 19:11	And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear.
Luke 19:12	He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.
Luke 19:13	And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come.
Luke 19:14	But his citizens hated him, and sent a message after him, saying, We will not have this man to reign over us.
Luke 19:15	And it came to pass, that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every man had gained by trading.
Luke 19:16	Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds.
Luke 19:17	And he said unto him, Well, thou good servant: because thou hast been faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities.
Luke 19:18	And the second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds.
Luke 19:19	And he said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities.
Luke 19:20	And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin:
Luke 19:21	For I feared thee, because thou art an austere man: thou takest up that thou layedst not down, and reapest that thou didst not sow.
Luke 19:22	And he saith unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I was an austere man, taking up that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow:
Luke 19:23	Wherefore then gavest not thou my money into the bank, that at my coming I might have required mine own with usury?
Luke 19:24	And he said unto them that stood by, Take from him the pound, and give it to him that hath ten pounds.
Luke 19:25	(And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds.)
Luke 19:26	For I say unto you, That unto every one which hath shall be given; and from him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away from him.
Luke 19:27	But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.
Luke 19:28	And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up to Jerusalem.
Luke 19:29	And it came to pass, when he was come nigh to Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount called the mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
Luke 19:30	Saying, Go ye into the village over against you; in the which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yet never man sat: loose him, and bring him hither.
Luke 19:31	And if any man ask you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him.
Luke 19:32	And they that were sent went their way, and found even as he had said unto them.
Luke 19:33	And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt?
Luke 19:34	And they said, The Lord hath need of him.
Luke 19:35	And they brought him to Jesus: and they cast their garments upon the colt, and they set Jesus thereon.
Luke 19:36	And as he went, they spread their clothes in the way.
Luke 19:37	And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen;
Luke 19:38	Saying, Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.
Luke 19:39	And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples.
Luke 19:40	And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that, if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out.
Luke 19:41	And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it,
Luke 19:42	Saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes.
Luke 19:43	For the days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side,
Luke 19:44	And shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another; because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.
Luke 19:45	And he went into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold therein, and them that bought;
Luke 19:46	Saying unto them, It is written, My house is the house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of thieves.
Luke 19:47	And he taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him,
Luke 19:48	And could not find what they might do: for all the people were very attentive to hear him.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 20
Luke 20:1	And it came to pass, that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple, and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon him with the elders,
Luke 20:2	And spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? or who is he that gave thee this authority?
Luke 20:3	And he answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one thing; and answer me:
Luke 20:4	The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men?
Luke 20:5	And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why then believed ye him not?
Luke 20:6	But and if we say, Of men; all the people will stone us: for they be persuaded that John was a prophet.
Luke 20:7	And they answered, that they could not tell whence it was.
Luke 20:8	And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things.
Luke 20:9	Then began he to speak to the people this parable; A certain man planted a vineyard, and let it forth to husbandmen, and went into a far country for a long time.
Luke 20:10	And at the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that they should give him of the fruit of the vineyard: but the husbandmen beat him, and sent him away empty.
Luke 20:11	And again he sent another servant: and they beat him also, and entreated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.
Luke 20:12	And again he sent a third: and they wounded him also, and cast him out.
Luke 20:13	Then said the lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son: it may be they will reverence him when they see him.
Luke 20:14	But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, This is the heir: come, let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.
Luke 20:15	So they cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him. What therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them?
Luke 20:16	He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard to others. And when they heard it, they said, God forbid.
Luke 20:17	And he beheld them, and said, What is this then that is written, The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner?
Luke 20:18	Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.
Luke 20:19	And the chief priests and the scribes the same hour sought to lay hands on him; and they feared the people: for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them.
Luke 20:20	And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, that so they might deliver him unto the power and authority of the governor.
Luke 20:21	And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, but teachest the way of God truly:
Luke 20:22	Is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Caesar, or no?
Luke 20:23	But he perceived their craftiness, and said unto them, Why tempt ye me?
Luke 20:24	Shew me a penny. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered and said, Caesar's.
Luke 20:25	And he said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's.
Luke 20:26	And they could not take hold of his words before the people: and they marvelled at his answer, and held their peace.
Luke 20:27	Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection; and they asked him,
Luke 20:28	Saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, If any man's brother die, having a wife, and he die without children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.
Luke 20:29	There were therefore seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and died without children.
Luke 20:30	And the second took her to wife, and he died childless.
Luke 20:31	And the third took her; and in like manner the seven also: and they left no children, and died.
Luke 20:32	Last of all the woman died also.
Luke 20:33	Therefore in the resurrection whose wife of them is she? for seven had her to wife.
Luke 20:34	And Jesus answering said unto them, The children of this world marry, and are given in marriage:
Luke 20:35	But they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage:
Luke 20:36	Neither can they die any more: for they are equal unto the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection.
Luke 20:37	Now that the dead are raised, even Moses shewed at the bush, when he calleth the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
Luke 20:38	For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living: for all live unto him.
Luke 20:39	Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast well said.
Luke 20:40	And after that they durst not ask him any question at all.
Luke 20:41	And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David's son?
Luke 20:42	And David himself saith in the book of Psalms, The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand,
Luke 20:43	Till I make thine enemies thy footstool.
Luke 20:44	David therefore calleth him Lord, how is he then his son?
Luke 20:45	Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his disciples,
Luke 20:46	Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms at feasts;
Luke 20:47	Which devour widows' houses, and for a shew make long prayers: the same shall receive greater damnation.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 21
Luke 21:1	And he looked up, and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury.
Luke 21:2	And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites.
Luke 21:3	And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than they all:
Luke 21:4	For all these have of their abundance cast in unto the offerings of God: but she of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had.
Luke 21:5	And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, he said,
Luke 21:6	As for these things which ye behold, the days will come, in the which there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.
Luke 21:7	And they asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these things be? and what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass?
Luke 21:8	And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and the time draweth near: go ye not therefore after them.
Luke 21:9	But when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified: for these things must first come to pass; but the end is not by and by.
Luke 21:10	Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom:
Luke 21:11	And great earthquakes shall be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven.
Luke 21:12	But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake.
Luke 21:13	And it shall turn to you for a testimony.
Luke 21:14	Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye shall answer:
Luke 21:15	For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist.
Luke 21:16	And ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends; and some of you shall they cause to be put to death.
Luke 21:17	And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake.
Luke 21:18	But there shall not an hair of your head perish.
Luke 21:19	In your patience possess ye your souls.
Luke 21:20	And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh.
Luke 21:21	Then let them which are in Judaea flee to the mountains; and let them which are in the midst of it depart out; and let not them that are in the countries enter thereinto.
Luke 21:22	For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.
Luke 21:23	But woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck, in those days! for there shall be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people.
Luke 21:24	And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
Luke 21:25	And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring;
Luke 21:26	Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.
Luke 21:27	And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
Luke 21:28	And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh.
Luke 21:29	And he spake to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all the trees;
Luke 21:30	When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your own selves that summer is now nigh at hand.
Luke 21:31	So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.
Luke 21:32	Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled.
Luke 21:33	Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away.
Luke 21:34	And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares.
Luke 21:35	For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Luke 21:36	Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.
Luke 21:37	And in the day time he was teaching in the temple; and at night he went out, and abode in the mount that is called the mount of Olives.
Luke 21:38	And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple, for to hear him.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 22
Luke 22:1	Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover.
Luke 22:2	And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him; for they feared the people.
Luke 22:3	Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve.
Luke 22:4	And he went his way, and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them.
Luke 22:5	And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money.
Luke 22:6	And he promised, and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude.
Luke 22:7	Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the passover must be killed.
Luke 22:8	And he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare us the passover, that we may eat.
Luke 22:9	And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare?
Luke 22:10	And he said unto them, Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he entereth in.
Luke 22:11	And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith unto thee, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples?
Luke 22:12	And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready.
Luke 22:13	And they went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover.
Luke 22:14	And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him.
Luke 22:15	And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer:
Luke 22:16	For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
Luke 22:17	And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves:
Luke 22:18	For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come.
Luke 22:19	And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me.
Luke 22:20	Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you.
Luke 22:21	But, behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table.
Luke 22:22	And truly the Son of man goeth, as it was determined: but woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed!
Luke 22:23	And they began to enquire among themselves, which of them it was that should do this thing.
Luke 22:24	And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest.
Luke 22:25	And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors.
Luke 22:26	But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve.
Luke 22:27	For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? is not he that sitteth at meat? but I am among you as he that serveth.
Luke 22:28	Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations.
Luke 22:29	And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me;
Luke 22:30	That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Luke 22:31	And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat:
Luke 22:32	But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.
Luke 22:33	And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both into prison, and to death.
Luke 22:34	And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me.
Luke 22:35	And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse, and scrip, and shoes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing.
Luke 22:36	Then said he unto them, But now, he that hath a purse, let him take it, and likewise his scrip: and he that hath no sword, let him sell his garment, and buy one.
Luke 22:37	For I say unto you, that this that is written must yet be accomplished in me, And he was reckoned among the transgressors: for the things concerning me have an end.
Luke 22:38	And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said unto them, It is enough.
Luke 22:39	And he came out, and went, as he was wont, to the mount of Olives; and his disciples also followed him.
Luke 22:40	And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation.
Luke 22:41	And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down, and prayed,
Luke 22:42	Saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.
Luke 22:43	And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him.
Luke 22:44	And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground.
Luke 22:45	And when he rose up from prayer, and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow,
Luke 22:46	And said unto them, Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation.
Luke 22:47	And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss him.
Luke 22:48	But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss?
Luke 22:49	When they which were about him saw what would follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword?
Luke 22:50	And one of them smote the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear.
Luke 22:51	And Jesus answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touched his ear, and healed him.
Luke 22:52	Then Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the temple, and the elders, which were come to him, Be ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and staves?
Luke 22:53	When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me: but this is your hour, and the power of darkness.
Luke 22:54	Then took they him, and led him, and brought him into the high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off.
Luke 22:55	And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were set down together, Peter sat down among them.
Luke 22:56	But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him.
Luke 22:57	And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.
Luke 22:58	And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not.
Luke 22:59	And about the space of one hour after another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also was with him: for he is a Galilaean.
Luke 22:60	And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew.
Luke 22:61	And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice.
Luke 22:62	And Peter went out, and wept bitterly.
Luke 22:63	And the men that held Jesus mocked him, and smote him.
Luke 22:64	And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee?
Luke 22:65	And many other things blasphemously spake they against him.
Luke 22:66	And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief priests and the scribes came together, and led him into their council, saying,
Luke 22:67	Art thou the Christ? tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe:
Luke 22:68	And if I also ask you, ye will not answer me, nor let me go.
Luke 22:69	Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of the power of God.
Luke 22:70	Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am.
Luke 22:71	And they said, What need we any further witness? for we ourselves have heard of his own mouth.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 23
Luke 23:1	And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate.
Luke 23:2	And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ a King.
Luke 23:3	And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered him and said, Thou sayest it.
Luke 23:4	Then said Pilate to the chief priests and to the people, I find no fault in this man.
Luke 23:5	And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place.
Luke 23:6	When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean.
Luke 23:7	And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time.
Luke 23:8	And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things of him; and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him.
Luke 23:9	Then he questioned with him in many words; but he answered him nothing.
Luke 23:10	And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him.
Luke 23:11	And Herod with his men of war set him at nought, and mocked him, and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate.
Luke 23:12	And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together: for before they were at enmity between themselves.
Luke 23:13	And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
Luke 23:14	Said unto them, Ye have brought this man unto me, as one that perverteth the people: and, behold, I, having examined him before you, have found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse him:
Luke 23:15	No, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him.
Luke 23:16	I will therefore chastise him, and release him.
Luke 23:17	(For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.)
Luke 23:18	And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas:
Luke 23:19	(Who for a certain sedition made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison.)
Luke 23:20	Pilate therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them.
Luke 23:21	But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.
Luke 23:22	And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath he done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him go.
Luke 23:23	And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed.
Luke 23:24	And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required.
Luke 23:25	And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder was cast into prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus to their will.
Luke 23:26	And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian, coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross, that he might bear it after Jesus.
Luke 23:27	And there followed him a great company of people, and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him.
Luke 23:28	But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children.
Luke 23:29	For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the paps which never gave suck.
Luke 23:30	Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us.
Luke 23:31	For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry?
Luke 23:32	And there were also two other, malefactors, led with him to be put to death.
Luke 23:33	And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left.
Luke 23:34	Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots.
Luke 23:35	And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God.
Luke 23:36	And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offering him vinegar,
Luke 23:37	And saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself.
Luke 23:38	And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Luke 23:39	And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us.
Luke 23:40	But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?
Luke 23:41	And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss.
Luke 23:42	And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.
Luke 23:43	And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt thou be with me in paradise.
Luke 23:44	And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.
Luke 23:45	And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst.
Luke 23:46	And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the ghost.
Luke 23:47	Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man.
Luke 23:48	And all the people that came together to that sight, beholding the things which were done, smote their breasts, and returned.
Luke 23:49	And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him from Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things.
Luke 23:50	And, behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counsellor; and he was a good man, and a just:
Luke 23:51	(The same had not consented to the counsel and deed of them;) he was of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews: who also himself waited for the kingdom of God.
Luke 23:52	This man went unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus.
Luke 23:53	And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid.
Luke 23:54	And that day was the preparation, and the sabbath drew on.
Luke 23:55	And the women also, which came with him from Galilee, followed after, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was laid.
Luke 23:56	And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; and rested the sabbath day according to the commandment.

>Luke
>Index
>End

===Luke 24
Luke 24:1	Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them.
Luke 24:2	And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre.
Luke 24:3	And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
Luke 24:4	And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments:
Luke 24:5	And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead?
Luke 24:6	He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee,
Luke 24:7	Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.
Luke 24:8	And they remembered his words,
Luke 24:9	And returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest.
Luke 24:10	It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles.
Luke 24:11	And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not.
Luke 24:12	Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass.
Luke 24:13	And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs.
Luke 24:14	And they talked together of all these things which had happened.
Luke 24:15	And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.
Luke 24:16	But their eyes were holden that they should not know him.
Luke 24:17	And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?
Luke 24:18	And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days?
Luke 24:19	And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:
Luke 24:20	And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him.
Luke 24:21	But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done.
Luke 24:22	Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre;
Luke 24:23	And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive.
Luke 24:24	And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not.
Luke 24:25	Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken:
Luke 24:26	Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?
Luke 24:27	And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.
Luke 24:28	And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as though he would have gone further.
Luke 24:29	But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them.
Luke 24:30	And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.
Luke 24:31	And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight.
Luke 24:32	And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?
Luke 24:33	And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them,
Luke 24:34	Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon.
Luke 24:35	And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread.
Luke 24:36	And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.
Luke 24:37	But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit.
Luke 24:38	And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts?
Luke 24:39	Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.
Luke 24:40	And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet.
Luke 24:41	And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat?
Luke 24:42	And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb.
Luke 24:43	And he took it, and did eat before them.
Luke 24:44	And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me.
Luke 24:45	Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures,
Luke 24:46	And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day:
Luke 24:47	And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
Luke 24:48	And ye are witnesses of these things.
Luke 24:49	And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high.
Luke 24:50	And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them.
Luke 24:51	And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven.
Luke 24:52	And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy:
Luke 24:53	And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.

>Luke
>Index
>End


===Acts 1
Acts 1:1	The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach,
Acts 1:2	Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen:
Acts 1:3	To whom also he shewed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God:
Acts 1:4	And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me.
Acts 1:5	For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence.
Acts 1:6	When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?
Acts 1:7	And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power.
Acts 1:8	But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth.
Acts 1:9	And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight.
Acts 1:10	And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel;
Acts 1:11	Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven.
Acts 1:12	Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a sabbath day's journey.
Acts 1:13	And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room, where abode both Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew, Philip, and Thomas, Bartholomew, and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon Zelotes, and Judas the brother of James.
Acts 1:14	These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.
Acts 1:15	And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples, and said, (the number of names together were about an hundred and twenty,)
Acts 1:16	Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus.
Acts 1:17	For he was numbered with us, and had obtained part of this ministry.
Acts 1:18	Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; and falling headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out.
Acts 1:19	And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch as that field is called in their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say, The field of blood.
Acts 1:20	For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation be desolate, and let no man dwell therein: and his bishoprick let another take.
Acts 1:21	Wherefore of these men which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us,
Acts 1:22	Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection.
Acts 1:23	And they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
Acts 1:24	And they prayed, and said, Thou, Lord, which knowest the hearts of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen,
Acts 1:25	That he may take part of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas by transgression fell, that he might go to his own place.
Acts 1:26	And they gave forth their lots; and the lot fell upon Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 2
Acts 2:1	And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place.
Acts 2:2	And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.
Acts 2:3	And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them.
Acts 2:4	And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.
Acts 2:5	And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven.
Acts 2:6	Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and were confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his own language.
Acts 2:7	And they were all amazed and marvelled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which speak Galilaeans?
Acts 2:8	And how hear we every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born?
Acts 2:9	Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judaea, and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia,
Acts 2:10	Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes,
Acts 2:11	Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God.
Acts 2:12	And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What meaneth this?
Acts 2:13	Others mocking said, These men are full of new wine.
Acts 2:14	But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said unto them, Ye men of Judaea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known unto you, and hearken to my words:
Acts 2:15	For these are not drunken, as ye suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day.
Acts 2:16	But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel;
Acts 2:17	And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams:
Acts 2:18	And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my Spirit; and they shall prophesy:
Acts 2:19	And I will shew wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath; blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke:
Acts 2:20	The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and notable day of the Lord come:
Acts 2:21	And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Acts 2:22	Ye men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know:
Acts 2:23	Him, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain:
Acts 2:24	Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it was not possible that he should be holden of it.
Acts 2:25	For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved:
Acts 2:26	Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad; moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope:
Acts 2:27	Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.
Acts 2:28	Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance.
Acts 2:29	Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us unto this day.
Acts 2:30	Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne;
Acts 2:31	He seeing this before spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption.
Acts 2:32	This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses.
Acts 2:33	Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed forth this, which ye now see and hear.
Acts 2:34	For David is not ascended into the heavens: but he saith himself, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand,
Acts 2:35	Until I make thy foes thy footstool.
Acts 2:36	Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God hath made the same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ.
Acts 2:37	Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do?
Acts 2:38	Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Acts 2:39	For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the LORD our God shall call.
Acts 2:40	And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this untoward generation.
Acts 2:41	Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls.
Acts 2:42	And they continued stedfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers.
Acts 2:43	And fear came upon every soul: and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles.
Acts 2:44	And all that believed were together, and had all things common;
Acts 2:45	And sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need.
Acts 2:46	And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart,
Acts 2:47	Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 3
Acts 3:1	Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour.
Acts 3:2	And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple;
Acts 3:3	Who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked an alms.
Acts 3:4	And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us.
Acts 3:5	And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them.
Acts 3:6	Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk.
Acts 3:7	And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up: and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength.
Acts 3:8	And he leaping up stood, and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.
Acts 3:9	And all the people saw him walking and praising God:
Acts 3:10	And they knew that it was he which sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him.
Acts 3:11	And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.
Acts 3:12	And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as though by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk?
Acts 3:13	The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus; whom ye delivered up, and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let him go.
Acts 3:14	But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you;
Acts 3:15	And killed the Prince of life, whom God hath raised from the dead; whereof we are witnesses.
Acts 3:16	And his name through faith in his name hath made this man strong, whom ye see and know: yea, the faith which is by him hath given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all.
Acts 3:17	And now, brethren, I wot that through ignorance ye did it, as did also your rulers.
Acts 3:18	But those things, which God before had shewed by the mouth of all his prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled.
Acts 3:19	Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord.
Acts 3:20	And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached unto you:
Acts 3:21	Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began.
Acts 3:22	For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.
Acts 3:23	And it shall come to pass, that every soul, which will not hear that prophet, shall be destroyed from among the people.
Acts 3:24	Yea, and all the prophets from Samuel and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold of these days.
Acts 3:25	Ye are the children of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying unto Abraham, And in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.
Acts 3:26	Unto you first God, having raised up his Son Jesus, sent him to bless you, in turning away every one of you from his iniquities.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 4
Acts 4:1	And as they spake unto the people, the priests, and the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees, came upon them,
Acts 4:2	Being grieved that they taught the people, and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
Acts 4:3	And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold unto the next day: for it was now eventide.
Acts 4:4	Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed; and the number of the men was about five thousand.
Acts 4:5	And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers, and elders, and scribes,
Acts 4:6	And Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem.
Acts 4:7	And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power, or by what name, have ye done this?
Acts 4:8	Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and elders of Israel,
Acts 4:9	If we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what means he is made whole;
Acts 4:10	Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole.
Acts 4:11	This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, which is become the head of the corner.
Acts 4:12	Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.
Acts 4:13	Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.
Acts 4:14	And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it.
Acts 4:15	But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves,
Acts 4:16	Saying, What shall we do to these men? for that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem; and we cannot deny it.
Acts 4:17	But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitly threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name.
Acts 4:18	And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus.
Acts 4:19	But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye.
Acts 4:20	For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
Acts 4:21	So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding nothing how they might punish them, because of the people: for all men glorified God for that which was done.
Acts 4:22	For the man was above forty years old, on whom this miracle of healing was shewed.
Acts 4:23	And being let go, they went to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said unto them.
Acts 4:24	And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord, and said, Lord, thou art God, which hast made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all that in them is:
Acts 4:25	Who by the mouth of thy servant David hast said, Why did the heathen rage, and the people imagine vain things?
Acts 4:26	The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord, and against his Christ.
Acts 4:27	For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and the people of Israel, were gathered together,
Acts 4:28	For to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.
Acts 4:29	And now, Lord, behold their threatenings: and grant unto thy servants, that with all boldness they may speak thy word,
Acts 4:30	By stretching forth thine hand to heal; and that signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus.
Acts 4:31	And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together; and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness.
Acts 4:32	And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul: neither said any of them that ought of the things which he possessed was his own; but they had all things common.
Acts 4:33	And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus: and great grace was upon them all.
Acts 4:34	Neither was there any among them that lacked: for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold,
Acts 4:35	And laid them down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need.
Acts 4:36	And Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, (which is, being interpreted, The son of consolation,) a Levite, and of the country of Cyprus,
Acts 4:37	Having land, sold it, and brought the money, and laid it at the apostles' feet.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 5
Acts 5:1	But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession,
Acts 5:2	And kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy to it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the apostles' feet.
Acts 5:3	But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost, and to keep back part of the price of the land?
Acts 5:4	Whiles it remained, was it not thine own? and after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.
Acts 5:5	And Ananias hearing these words fell down, and gave up the ghost: and great fear came on all them that heard these things.
Acts 5:6	And the young men arose, wound him up, and carried him out, and buried him.
Acts 5:7	And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what was done, came in.
Acts 5:8	And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much? And she said, Yea, for so much.
Acts 5:9	Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? behold, the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry thee out.
Acts 5:10	Then fell she down straightway at his feet, and yielded up the ghost: and the young men came in, and found her dead, and, carrying her forth, buried her by her husband.
Acts 5:11	And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things.
Acts 5:12	And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people; (and they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.
Acts 5:13	And of the rest durst no man join himself to them: but the people magnified them.
Acts 5:14	And believers were the more added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women.)
Acts 5:15	Insomuch that they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.
Acts 5:16	There came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing sick folks, and them which were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed every one.
Acts 5:17	Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him, (which is the sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled with indignation,
Acts 5:18	And laid their hands on the apostles, and put them in the common prison.
Acts 5:19	But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and brought them forth, and said,
Acts 5:20	Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.
Acts 5:21	And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early in the morning, and taught. But the high priest came, and they that were with him, and called the council together, and all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
Acts 5:22	But when the officers came, and found them not in the prison, they returned and told,
Acts 5:23	Saying, The prison truly found we shut with all safety, and the keepers standing without before the doors: but when we had opened, we found no man within.
Acts 5:24	Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these things, they doubted of them whereunto this would grow.
Acts 5:25	Then came one and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people.
Acts 5:26	Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them without violence: for they feared the people, lest they should have been stoned.
Acts 5:27	And when they had brought them, they set them before the council: and the high priest asked them,
Acts 5:28	Saying, Did not we straitly command you that ye should not teach in this name? and, behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's blood upon us.
Acts 5:29	Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men.
Acts 5:30	The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree.
Acts 5:31	Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
Acts 5:32	And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him.
Acts 5:33	When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took counsel to slay them.
Acts 5:34	Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space;
Acts 5:35	And said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men.
Acts 5:36	For before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered, and brought to nought.
Acts 5:37	After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the taxing, and drew away much people after him: he also perished; and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.
Acts 5:38	And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to nought:
Acts 5:39	But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found even to fight against God.
Acts 5:40	And to him they agreed: and when they had called the apostles, and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
Acts 5:41	And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name.
Acts 5:42	And daily in the temple, and in every house, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 6
Acts 6:1	And in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration.
Acts 6:2	Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, and serve tables.
Acts 6:3	Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business.
Acts 6:4	But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word.
Acts 6:5	And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a proselyte of Antioch:
Acts 6:6	Whom they set before the apostles: and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
Acts 6:7	And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith.
Acts 6:8	And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people.
Acts 6:9	Then there arose certain of the synagogue, which is called the synagogue of the Libertines, and Cyrenians, and Alexandrians, and of them of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen.
Acts 6:10	And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spake.
Acts 6:11	Then they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses, and against God.
Acts 6:12	And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon him, and caught him, and brought him to the council,
Acts 6:13	And set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth not to speak blasphemous words against this holy place, and the law:
Acts 6:14	For we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered us.
Acts 6:15	And all that sat in the council, looking stedfastly on him, saw his face as it had been the face of an angel.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 7
Acts 7:1	Then said the high priest, Are these things so?
Acts 7:2	And he said, Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken; The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran,
Acts 7:3	And said unto him, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew thee.
Acts 7:4	Then came he out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and dwelt in Charran: and from thence, when his father was dead, he removed him into this land, wherein ye now dwell.
Acts 7:5	And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set his foot on: yet he promised that he would give it to him for a possession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had no child.
Acts 7:6	And God spake on this wise, That his seed should sojourn in a strange land; and that they should bring them into bondage, and entreat them evil four hundred years.
Acts 7:7	And the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, said God: and after that shall they come forth, and serve me in this place.
Acts 7:8	And he gave him the covenant of circumcision: and so Abraham begat Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat the twelve patriarchs.
Acts 7:9	And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt: but God was with him,
Acts 7:10	And delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favour and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and he made him governor over Egypt and all his house.
Acts 7:11	Now there came a dearth over all the land of Egypt and Chanaan, and great affliction: and our fathers found no sustenance.
Acts 7:12	But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent out our fathers first.
Acts 7:13	And at the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren; and Joseph's kindred was made known unto Pharaoh.
Acts 7:14	Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to him, and all his kindred, threescore and fifteen souls.
Acts 7:15	So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he, and our fathers,
Acts 7:16	And were carried over into Sychem, and laid in the sepulchre that Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Emmor the father of Sychem.
Acts 7:17	But when the time of the promise drew nigh, which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,
Acts 7:18	Till another king arose, which knew not Joseph.
Acts 7:19	The same dealt subtilly with our kindred, and evil entreated our fathers, so that they cast out their young children, to the end they might not live.
Acts 7:20	In which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and nourished up in his father's house three months:
Acts 7:21	And when he was cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him for her own son.
Acts 7:22	And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and in deeds.
Acts 7:23	And when he was full forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren the children of Israel.
Acts 7:24	And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avenged him that was oppressed, and smote the Egyptian:
Acts 7:25	For he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God by his hand would deliver them: but they understood not.
Acts 7:26	And the next day he shewed himself unto them as they strove, and would have set them at one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren; why do ye wrong one to another?
Acts 7:27	But he that did his neighbour wrong thrust him away, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us?
Acts 7:28	Wilt thou kill me, as thou diddest the Egyptian yesterday?
Acts 7:29	Then fled Moses at this saying, and was a stranger in the land of Madian, where he begat two sons.
Acts 7:30	And when forty years were expired, there appeared to him in the wilderness of mount Sina an angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in a bush.
Acts 7:31	When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight: and as he drew near to behold it, the voice of the LORD came unto him,
Acts 7:32	Saying, I am the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Then Moses trembled, and durst not behold.
Acts 7:33	Then said the Lord to him, Put off thy shoes from thy feet: for the place where thou standest is holy ground.
Acts 7:34	I have seen, I have seen the affliction of my people which is in Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, and am come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send thee into Egypt.
Acts 7:35	This Moses whom they refused, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge? the same did God send to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel which appeared to him in the bush.
Acts 7:36	He brought them out, after that he had shewed wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the Red sea, and in the wilderness forty years.
Acts 7:37	This is that Moses, which said unto the children of Israel, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear.
Acts 7:38	This is he, that was in the church in the wilderness with the angel which spake to him in the mount Sina, and with our fathers: who received the lively oracles to give unto us:
Acts 7:39	To whom our fathers would not obey, but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned back again into Egypt,
Acts 7:40	Saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go before us: for as for this Moses, which brought us out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.
Acts 7:41	And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice unto the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands.
Acts 7:42	Then God turned, and gave them up to worship the host of heaven; as it is written in the book of the prophets, O ye house of Israel, have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices by the space of forty years in the wilderness?
Acts 7:43	Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan, figures which ye made to worship them: and I will carry you away beyond Babylon.
Acts 7:44	Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as he had appointed, speaking unto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seen.
Acts 7:45	Which also our fathers that came after brought in with Jesus into the possession of the Gentiles, whom God drave out before the face of our fathers, unto the days of David;
Acts 7:46	Who found favour before God, and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.
Acts 7:47	But Solomon built him an house.
Acts 7:48	Howbeit the most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands; as saith the prophet,
Acts 7:49	Heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool: what house will ye build me? saith the Lord: or what is the place of my rest?
Acts 7:50	Hath not my hand made all these things?
Acts 7:51	Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost: as your fathers did, so do ye.
Acts 7:52	Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? and they have slain them which shewed before of the coming of the Just One; of whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers:
Acts 7:53	Who have received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it.
Acts 7:54	When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with their teeth.
Acts 7:55	But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up stedfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God,
Acts 7:56	And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing on the right hand of God.
Acts 7:57	Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and ran upon him with one accord,
Acts 7:58	And cast him out of the city, and stoned him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul.
Acts 7:59	And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.
Acts 7:60	And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 8
Acts 8:1	And Saul was consenting unto his death. And at that time there was a great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and Samaria, except the apostles.
Acts 8:2	And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great lamentation over him.
Acts 8:3	As for Saul, he made havock of the church, entering into every house, and haling men and women committed them to prison.
Acts 8:4	Therefore they that were scattered abroad went every where preaching the word.
Acts 8:5	Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them.
Acts 8:6	And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did.
Acts 8:7	For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with them: and many taken with palsies, and that were lame, were healed.
Acts 8:8	And there was great joy in that city.
Acts 8:9	But there was a certain man, called Simon, which beforetime in the same city used sorcery, and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one:
Acts 8:10	To whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power of God.
Acts 8:11	And to him they had regard, because that of long time he had bewitched them with sorceries.
Acts 8:12	But when they believed Philip preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
Acts 8:13	Then Simon himself believed also: and when he was baptized, he continued with Philip, and wondered, beholding the miracles and signs which were done.
Acts 8:14	Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John:
Acts 8:15	Who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost:
Acts 8:16	(For as yet he was fallen upon none of them: only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.)
Acts 8:17	Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost.
Acts 8:18	And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money,
Acts 8:19	Saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost.
Acts 8:20	But Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money.
Acts 8:21	Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter: for thy heart is not right in the sight of God.
Acts 8:22	Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee.
Acts 8:23	For I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness, and in the bond of iniquity.
Acts 8:24	Then answered Simon, and said, Pray ye to the LORD for me, that none of these things which ye have spoken come upon me.
Acts 8:25	And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans.
Acts 8:26	And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert.
Acts 8:27	And he arose and went: and, behold, a man of Ethiopia, an eunuch of great authority under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who had the charge of all her treasure, and had come to Jerusalem for to worship,
Acts 8:28	Was returning, and sitting in his chariot read Esaias the prophet.
Acts 8:29	Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself to this chariot.
Acts 8:30	And Philip ran thither to him, and heard him read the prophet Esaias, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest?
Acts 8:31	And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him.
Acts 8:32	The place of the scripture which he read was this, He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; and like a lamb dumb before his shearer, so opened he not his mouth:
Acts 8:33	In his humiliation his judgment was taken away: and who shall declare his generation? for his life is taken from the earth.
Acts 8:34	And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other man?
Acts 8:35	Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached unto him Jesus.
Acts 8:36	And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water: and the eunuch said, See, here is water; what doth hinder me to be baptized?
Acts 8:37	And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
Acts 8:38	And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.
Acts 8:39	And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip, that the eunuch saw him no more: and he went on his way rejoicing.
Acts 8:40	But Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preached in all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 9
Acts 9:1	And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest,
Acts 9:2	And desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogues, that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem.
Acts 9:3	And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven:
Acts 9:4	And he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?
Acts 9:5	And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
Acts 9:6	And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do.
Acts 9:7	And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no man.
Acts 9:8	And Saul arose from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man: but they led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus.
Acts 9:9	And he was three days without sight, and neither did eat nor drink.
Acts 9:10	And there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias; and to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord.
Acts 9:11	And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the street which is called Straight, and enquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul, of Tarsus: for, behold, he prayeth,
Acts 9:12	And hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in, and putting his hand on him, that he might receive his sight.
Acts 9:13	Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem:
Acts 9:14	And here he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that call on thy name.
Acts 9:15	But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel:
Acts 9:16	For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake.
Acts 9:17	And Ananias went his way, and entered into the house; and putting his hands on him said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost.
Acts 9:18	And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales: and he received sight forthwith, and arose, and was baptized.
Acts 9:19	And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus.
Acts 9:20	And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, that he is the Son of God.
Acts 9:21	But all that heard him were amazed, and said; Is not this he that destroyed them which called on this name in Jerusalem, and came hither for that intent, that he might bring them bound unto the chief priests?
Acts 9:22	But Saul increased the more in strength, and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ.
Acts 9:23	And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him:
Acts 9:24	But their laying await was known of Saul. And they watched the gates day and night to kill him.
Acts 9:25	Then the disciples took him by night, and let him down by the wall in a basket.
Acts 9:26	And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he assayed to join himself to the disciples: but they were all afraid of him, and believed not that he was a disciple.
Acts 9:27	But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the apostles, and declared unto them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus.
Acts 9:28	And he was with them coming in and going out at Jerusalem.
Acts 9:29	And he spake boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, and disputed against the Grecians: but they went about to slay him.
Acts 9:30	Which when the brethren knew, they brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him forth to Tarsus.
Acts 9:31	Then had the churches rest throughout all Judaea and Galilee and Samaria, and were edified; and walking in the fear of the Lord, and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost, were multiplied.
Acts 9:32	And it came to pass, as Peter passed throughout all quarters, he came down also to the saints which dwelt at Lydda.
Acts 9:33	And there he found a certain man named Aeneas, which had kept his bed eight years, and was sick of the palsy.
Acts 9:34	And Peter said unto him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ maketh thee whole: arise, and make thy bed. And he arose immediately.
Acts 9:35	And all that dwelt at Lydda and Saron saw him, and turned to the Lord.
Acts 9:36	Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which by interpretation is called Dorcas: this woman was full of good works and almsdeeds which she did.
Acts 9:37	And it came to pass in those days, that she was sick, and died: whom when they had washed, they laid her in an upper chamber.
Acts 9:38	And forasmuch as Lydda was nigh to Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent unto him two men, desiring him that he would not delay to come to them.
Acts 9:39	Then Peter arose and went with them. When he was come, they brought him into the upper chamber: and all the widows stood by him weeping, and shewing the coats and garments which Dorcas made, while she was with them.
Acts 9:40	But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled down, and prayed; and turning him to the body said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes: and when she saw Peter, she sat up.
Acts 9:41	And he gave her his hand, and lifted her up, and when he had called the saints and widows, presented her alive.
Acts 9:42	And it was known throughout all Joppa; and many believed in the Lord.
Acts 9:43	And it came to pass, that he tarried many days in Joppa with one Simon a tanner.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 10
Acts 10:1	There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion of the band called the Italian band,
Acts 10:2	A devout man, and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God alway.
Acts 10:3	He saw in a vision evidently about the ninth hour of the day an angel of God coming in to him, and saying unto him, Cornelius.
Acts 10:4	And when he looked on him, he was afraid, and said, What is it, Lord? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for a memorial before God.
Acts 10:5	And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surname is Peter:
Acts 10:6	He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea side: he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to do.
Acts 10:7	And when the angel which spake unto Cornelius was departed, he called two of his household servants, and a devout soldier of them that waited on him continually;
Acts 10:8	And when he had declared all these things unto them, he sent them to Joppa.
Acts 10:9	On the morrow, as they went on their journey, and drew nigh unto the city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth hour:
Acts 10:10	And he became very hungry, and would have eaten: but while they made ready, he fell into a trance,
Acts 10:11	And saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending upon him, as it had been a great sheet knit at the four corners, and let down to the earth:
Acts 10:12	Wherein were all manner of fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air.
Acts 10:13	And there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter; kill, and eat.
Acts 10:14	But Peter said, Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten any thing that is common or unclean.
Acts 10:15	And the voice spake unto him again the second time, What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common.
Acts 10:16	This was done thrice: and the vessel was received up again into heaven.
Acts 10:17	Now while Peter doubted in himself what this vision which he had seen should mean, behold, the men which were sent from Cornelius had made enquiry for Simon's house, and stood before the gate,
Acts 10:18	And called, and asked whether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, were lodged there.
Acts 10:19	While Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him, Behold, three men seek thee.
Acts 10:20	Arise therefore, and get thee down, and go with them, doubting nothing: for I have sent them.
Acts 10:21	Then Peter went down to the men which were sent unto him from Cornelius; and said, Behold, I am he whom ye seek: what is the cause wherefore ye are come?
Acts 10:22	And they said, Cornelius the centurion, a just man, and one that feareth God, and of good report among all the nation of the Jews, was warned from God by an holy angel to send for thee into his house, and to hear words of thee.
Acts 10:23	Then called he them in, and lodged them. And on the morrow Peter went away with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompanied him.
Acts 10:24	And the morrow after they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius waited for them, and he had called together his kinsmen and near friends.
Acts 10:25	And as Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him, and fell down at his feet, and worshipped him.
Acts 10:26	But Peter took him up, saying, Stand up; I myself also am a man.
Acts 10:27	And as he talked with him, he went in, and found many that were come together.
Acts 10:28	And he said unto them, Ye know how that it is an unlawful thing for a man that is a Jew to keep company, or come unto one of another nation; but God hath shewed me that I should not call any man common or unclean.
Acts 10:29	Therefore came I unto you without gainsaying, as soon as I was sent for: I ask therefore for what intent ye have sent for me?
Acts 10:30	And Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting until this hour; and at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and, behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing,
Acts 10:31	And said, Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thine alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God.
Acts 10:32	Send therefore to Joppa, and call hither Simon, whose surname is Peter; he is lodged in the house of one Simon a tanner by the sea side: who, when he cometh, shall speak unto thee.
Acts 10:33	Immediately therefore I sent to thee; and thou hast well done that thou art come. Now therefore are we all here present before God, to hear all things that are commanded thee of God.
Acts 10:34	Then Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons:
Acts 10:35	But in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him.
Acts 10:36	The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all:)
Acts 10:37	That word, I say, ye know, which was published throughout all Judaea, and began from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached;
Acts 10:38	How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him.
Acts 10:39	And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the land of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they slew and hanged on a tree:
Acts 10:40	Him God raised up the third day, and shewed him openly;
Acts 10:41	Not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead.
Acts 10:42	And he commanded us to preach unto the people, and to testify that it is he which was ordained of God to be the Judge of quick and dead.
Acts 10:43	To him give all the prophets witness, that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins.
Acts 10:44	While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word.
Acts 10:45	And they of the circumcision which believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was poured out the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Acts 10:46	For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God. Then answered Peter,
Acts 10:47	Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?
Acts 10:48	And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then prayed they him to tarry certain days.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 11
Acts 11:1	And the apostles and brethren that were in Judaea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God.
Acts 11:2	And when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the circumcision contended with him,
Acts 11:3	Saying, Thou wentest in to men uncircumcised, and didst eat with them.
Acts 11:4	But Peter rehearsed the matter from the beginning, and expounded it by order unto them, saying,
Acts 11:5	I was in the city of Joppa praying: and in a trance I saw a vision, A certain vessel descend, as it had been a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners; and it came even to me:
Acts 11:6	Upon the which when I had fastened mine eyes, I considered, and saw fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air.
Acts 11:7	And I heard a voice saying unto me, Arise, Peter; slay and eat.
Acts 11:8	But I said, Not so, Lord: for nothing common or unclean hath at any time entered into my mouth.
Acts 11:9	But the voice answered me again from heaven, What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common.
Acts 11:10	And this was done three times: and all were drawn up again into heaven.
Acts 11:11	And, behold, immediately there were three men already come unto the house where I was, sent from Caesarea unto me.
Acts 11:12	And the Spirit bade me go with them, nothing doubting. Moreover these six brethren accompanied me, and we entered into the man's house:
Acts 11:13	And he shewed us how he had seen an angel in his house, which stood and said unto him, Send men to Joppa, and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter;
Acts 11:14	Who shall tell thee words, whereby thou and all thy house shall be saved.
Acts 11:15	And as I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us at the beginning.
Acts 11:16	Then remembered I the word of the Lord, how that he said, John indeed baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost.
Acts 11:17	Forasmuch then as God gave them the like gift as he did unto us, who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ; what was I, that I could withstand God?
Acts 11:18	When they heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying, Then hath God also to the Gentiles granted repentance unto life.
Acts 11:19	Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen travelled as far as Phenice, and Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word to none but unto the Jews only.
Acts 11:20	And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which, when they were come to Antioch, spake unto the Grecians, preaching the LORD Jesus.
Acts 11:21	And the hand of the Lord was with them: and a great number believed, and turned unto the Lord.
Acts 11:22	Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem: and they sent forth Barnabas, that he should go as far as Antioch.
Acts 11:23	Who, when he came, and had seen the grace of God, was glad, and exhorted them all, that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto the Lord.
Acts 11:24	For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith: and much people was added unto the Lord.
Acts 11:25	Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus, for to seek Saul:
Acts 11:26	And when he had found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to pass, that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church, and taught much people. And the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch.
Acts 11:27	And in these days came prophets from Jerusalem unto Antioch.
Acts 11:28	And there stood up one of them named Agabus, and signified by the Spirit that there should be great dearth throughout all the world: which came to pass in the days of Claudius Caesar.
Acts 11:29	Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined to send relief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judaea:
Acts 11:30	Which also they did, and sent it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 12
Acts 12:1	Now about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hands to vex certain of the church.
Acts 12:2	And he killed James the brother of John with the sword.
Acts 12:3	And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also. (Then were the days of unleavened bread.)
Acts 12:4	And when he had apprehended him, he put him in prison, and delivered him to four quaternions of soldiers to keep him; intending after Easter to bring him forth to the people.
Acts 12:5	Peter therefore was kept in prison: but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him.
Acts 12:6	And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and the keepers before the door kept the prison.
Acts 12:7	And, behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the side, and raised him up, saying, Arise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands.
Acts 12:8	And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thy sandals. And so he did. And he saith unto him, Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me.
Acts 12:9	And he went out, and followed him; and wist not that it was true which was done by the angel; but thought he saw a vision.
Acts 12:10	When they were past the first and the second ward, they came unto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city; which opened to them of his own accord: and they went out, and passed on through one street; and forthwith the angel departed from him.
Acts 12:11	And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a surety, that the LORD hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews.
Acts 12:12	And when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John, whose surname was Mark; where many were gathered together praying.
Acts 12:13	And as Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a damsel came to hearken, named Rhoda.
Acts 12:14	And when she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the gate for gladness, but ran in, and told how Peter stood before the gate.
Acts 12:15	And they said unto her, Thou art mad. But she constantly affirmed that it was even so. Then said they, It is his angel.
Acts 12:16	But Peter continued knocking: and when they had opened the door, and saw him, they were astonished.
Acts 12:17	But he, beckoning unto them with the hand to hold their peace, declared unto them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And he said, Go shew these things unto James, and to the brethren. And he departed, and went into another place.
Acts 12:18	Now as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the soldiers, what was become of Peter.
Acts 12:19	And when Herod had sought for him, and found him not, he examined the keepers, and commanded that they should be put to death. And he went down from Judaea to Caesarea, and there abode.
Acts 12:20	And Herod was highly displeased with them of Tyre and Sidon: but they came with one accord to him, and, having made Blastus the king's chamberlain their friend, desired peace; because their country was nourished by the king's country.
Acts 12:21	And upon a set day Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his throne, and made an oration unto them.
Acts 12:22	And the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of a god, and not of a man.
Acts 12:23	And immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not God the glory: and he was eaten of worms, and gave up the ghost.
Acts 12:24	But the word of God grew and multiplied.
Acts 12:25	And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, when they had fulfilled their ministry, and took with them John, whose surname was Mark.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 13
Acts 13:1	Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen, which had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
Acts 13:2	As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them.
Acts 13:3	And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.
Acts 13:4	So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto Seleucia; and from thence they sailed to Cyprus.
Acts 13:5	And when they were at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews: and they had also John to their minister.
Acts 13:6	And when they had gone through the isle unto Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Barjesus:
Acts 13:7	Which was with the deputy of the country, Sergius Paulus, a prudent man; who called for Barnabas and Saul, and desired to hear the word of God.
Acts 13:8	But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation) withstood them, seeking to turn away the deputy from the faith.
Acts 13:9	Then Saul, (who also is called Paul,) filled with the Holy Ghost, set his eyes on him.
Acts 13:10	And said, O full of all subtilty and all mischief, thou child of the devil, thou enemy of all righteousness, wilt thou not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord?
Acts 13:11	And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a season. And immediately there fell on him a mist and a darkness; and he went about seeking some to lead him by the hand.
Acts 13:12	Then the deputy, when he saw what was done, believed, being astonished at the doctrine of the Lord.
Acts 13:13	Now when Paul and his company loosed from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia: and John departing from them returned to Jerusalem.
Acts 13:14	But when they departed from Perga, they came to Antioch in Pisidia, and went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and sat down.
Acts 13:15	And after the reading of the law and the prophets the rulers of the synagogue sent unto them, saying, Ye men and brethren, if ye have any word of exhortation for the people, say on.
Acts 13:16	Then Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, Men of Israel, and ye that fear God, give audience.
Acts 13:17	The God of this people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they dwelt as strangers in the land of Egypt, and with an high arm brought he them out of it.
Acts 13:18	And about the time of forty years suffered he their manners in the wilderness.
Acts 13:19	And when he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Chanaan, he divided their land to them by lot.
Acts 13:20	And after that he gave unto them judges about the space of four hundred and fifty years, until Samuel the prophet.
Acts 13:21	And afterward they desired a king: and God gave unto them Saul the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, by the space of forty years.
Acts 13:22	And when he had removed him, he raised up unto them David to be their king; to whom also he gave their testimony, and said, I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart, which shall fulfil all my will.
Acts 13:23	Of this man's seed hath God according to his promise raised unto Israel a Saviour, Jesus:
Acts 13:24	When John had first preached before his coming the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
Acts 13:25	And as John fulfilled his course, he said, Whom think ye that I am? I am not he. But, behold, there cometh one after me, whose shoes of his feet I am not worthy to loose.
Acts 13:26	Men and brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and whosoever among you feareth God, to you is the word of this salvation sent.
Acts 13:27	For they that dwell at Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they knew him not, nor yet the voices of the prophets which are read every sabbath day, they have fulfilled them in condemning him.
Acts 13:28	And though they found no cause of death in him, yet desired they Pilate that he should be slain.
Acts 13:29	And when they had fulfilled all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a sepulchre.
Acts 13:30	But God raised him from the dead:
Acts 13:31	And he was seen many days of them which came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are his witnesses unto the people.
Acts 13:32	And we declare unto you glad tidings, how that the promise which was made unto the fathers,
Acts 13:33	God hath fulfilled the same unto us their children, in that he hath raised up Jesus again; as it is also written in the second psalm, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Acts 13:34	And as concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption, he said on this wise, I will give you the sure mercies of David.
Acts 13:35	Wherefore he saith also in another psalm, Thou shalt not suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.
Acts 13:36	For David, after he had served his own generation by the will of God, fell on sleep, and was laid unto his fathers, and saw corruption:
Acts 13:37	But he, whom God raised again, saw no corruption.
Acts 13:38	Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins:
Acts 13:39	And by him all that believe are justified from all things, from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses.
Acts 13:40	Beware therefore, lest that come upon you, which is spoken of in the prophets;
Acts 13:41	Behold, ye despisers, and wonder, and perish: for I work a work in your days, a work which ye shall in no wise believe, though a man declare it unto you.
Acts 13:42	And when the Jews were gone out of the synagogue, the Gentiles besought that these words might be preached to them the next sabbath.
Acts 13:43	Now when the congregation was broken up, many of the Jews and religious proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas: who, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.
Acts 13:44	And the next sabbath day came almost the whole city together to hear the word of God.
Acts 13:45	But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy, and spake against those things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming.
Acts 13:46	Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold, and said, It was necessary that the word of God should first have been spoken to you: but seeing ye put it from you, and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles.
Acts 13:47	For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have set thee to be a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for salvation unto the ends of the earth.
Acts 13:48	And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, and glorified the word of the Lord: and as many as were ordained to eternal life believed.
Acts 13:49	And the word of the Lord was published throughout all the region.
Acts 13:50	But the Jews stirred up the devout and honourable women, and the chief men of the city, and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them out of their coasts.
Acts 13:51	But they shook off the dust of their feet against them, and came unto Iconium.
Acts 13:52	And the disciples were filled with joy, and with the Holy Ghost.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 14
Acts 14:1	And it came to pass in Iconium, that they went both together into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spake, that a great multitude both of the Jews and also of the Greeks believed.
Acts 14:2	But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles, and made their minds evil affected against the brethren.
Acts 14:3	Long time therefore abode they speaking boldly in the Lord, which gave testimony unto the word of his grace, and granted signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
Acts 14:4	But the multitude of the city was divided: and part held with the Jews, and part with the apostles.
Acts 14:5	And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles, and also of the Jews with their rulers, to use them despitefully, and to stone them,
Acts 14:6	They were ware of it, and fled unto Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and unto the region that lieth round about:
Acts 14:7	And there they preached the gospel.
Acts 14:8	And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent in his feet, being a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked:
Acts 14:9	The same heard Paul speak: who stedfastly beholding him, and perceiving that he had faith to be healed,
Acts 14:10	Said with a loud voice, Stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped and walked.
Acts 14:11	And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, The gods are come down to us in the likeness of men.
Acts 14:12	And they called Barnabas, Jupiter; and Paul, Mercurius, because he was the chief speaker.
Acts 14:13	Then the priest of Jupiter, which was before their city, brought oxen and garlands unto the gates, and would have done sacrifice with the people.
Acts 14:14	Which when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of, they rent their clothes, and ran in among the people, crying out,
Acts 14:15	And saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of like passions with you, and preach unto you that ye should turn from these vanities unto the living God, which made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all things that are therein:
Acts 14:16	Who in times past suffered all nations to walk in their own ways.
Acts 14:17	Nevertheless he left not himself without witness, in that he did good, and gave us rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness.
Acts 14:18	And with these sayings scarce restrained they the people, that they had not done sacrifice unto them.
Acts 14:19	And there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium, who persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul, drew him out of the city, supposing he had been dead.
Acts 14:20	Howbeit, as the disciples stood round about him, he rose up, and came into the city: and the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe.
Acts 14:21	And when they had preached the gospel to that city, and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium, and Antioch,
Acts 14:22	Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God.
Acts 14:23	And when they had ordained them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they believed.
Acts 14:24	And after they had passed throughout Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.
Acts 14:25	And when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down into Attalia:
Acts 14:26	And thence sailed to Antioch, from whence they had been recommended to the grace of God for the work which they fulfilled.
Acts 14:27	And when they were come, and had gathered the church together, they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles.
Acts 14:28	And there they abode long time with the disciples.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 15
Acts 15:1	And certain men which came down from Judaea taught the brethren, and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved.
Acts 15:2	When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain other of them, should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and elders about this question.
Acts 15:3	And being brought on their way by the church, they passed through Phenice and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and they caused great joy unto all the brethren.
Acts 15:4	And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received of the church, and of the apostles and elders, and they declared all things that God had done with them.
Acts 15:5	But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees which believed, saying, That it was needful to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses.
Acts 15:6	And the apostles and elders came together for to consider of this matter.
Acts 15:7	And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose up, and said unto them, Men and brethren, ye know how that a good while ago God made choice among us, that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the word of the gospel, and believe.
Acts 15:8	And God, which knoweth the hearts, bare them witness, giving them the Holy Ghost, even as he did unto us;
Acts 15:9	And put no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Acts 15:10	Now therefore why tempt ye God, to put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
Acts 15:11	But we believe that through the grace of the LORD Jesus Christ we shall be saved, even as they.
Acts 15:12	Then all the multitude kept silence, and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul, declaring what miracles and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles by them.
Acts 15:13	And after they had held their peace, James answered, saying, Men and brethren, hearken unto me:
Acts 15:14	Simeon hath declared how God at the first did visit the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name.
Acts 15:15	And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written,
Acts 15:16	After this I will return, and will build again the tabernacle of David, which is fallen down; and I will build again the ruins thereof, and I will set it up:
Acts 15:17	That the residue of men might seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith the Lord, who doeth all these things.
Acts 15:18	Known unto God are all his works from the beginning of the world.
Acts 15:19	Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them, which from among the Gentiles are turned to God:
Acts 15:20	But that we write unto them, that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood.
Acts 15:21	For Moses of old time hath in every city them that preach him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath day.
Acts 15:22	Then pleased it the apostles and elders with the whole church, to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas; namely, Judas surnamed Barsabas and Silas, chief men among the brethren:
Acts 15:23	And they wrote letters by them after this manner; The apostles and elders and brethren send greeting unto the brethren which are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia.
Acts 15:24	Forasmuch as we have heard, that certain which went out from us have troubled you with words, subverting your souls, saying, Ye must be circumcised, and keep the law: to whom we gave no such commandment:
Acts 15:25	It seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
Acts 15:26	Men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Acts 15:27	We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who shall also tell you the same things by mouth.
Acts 15:28	For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things;
Acts 15:29	That ye abstain from meats offered to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication: from which if ye keep yourselves, ye shall do well. Fare ye well.
Acts 15:30	So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch: and when they had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle:
Acts 15:31	Which when they had read, they rejoiced for the consolation.
Acts 15:32	And Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, exhorted the brethren with many words, and confirmed them.
Acts 15:33	And after they had tarried there a space, they were let go in peace from the brethren unto the apostles.
Acts 15:34	Notwithstanding it pleased Silas to abide there still.
Acts 15:35	Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.
Acts 15:36	And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the LORD, and see how they do.
Acts 15:37	And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surname was Mark.
Acts 15:38	But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work.
Acts 15:39	And the contention was so sharp between them, that they departed asunder one from the other: and so Barnabas took Mark, and sailed unto Cyprus;
Acts 15:40	And Paul chose Silas, and departed, being recommended by the brethren unto the grace of God.
Acts 15:41	And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 16
Acts 16:1	Then came he to Derbe and Lystra: and, behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was a Jewess, and believed; but his father was a Greek:
Acts 16:2	Which was well reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Iconium.
Acts 16:3	Him would Paul have to go forth with him; and took and circumcised him because of the Jews which were in those quarters: for they knew all that his father was a Greek.
Acts 16:4	And as they went through the cities, they delivered them the decrees for to keep, that were ordained of the apostles and elders which were at Jerusalem.
Acts 16:5	And so were the churches established in the faith, and increased in number daily.
Acts 16:6	Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia,
Acts 16:7	After they were come to Mysia, they assayed to go into Bithynia: but the Spirit suffered them not.
Acts 16:8	And they passing by Mysia came down to Troas.
Acts 16:9	And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; There stood a man of Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia, and help us.
Acts 16:10	And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavoured to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them.
Acts 16:11	Therefore loosing from Troas, we came with a straight course to Samothracia, and the next day to Neapolis;
Acts 16:12	And from thence to Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony: and we were in that city abiding certain days.
Acts 16:13	And on the sabbath we went out of the city by a river side, where prayer was wont to be made; and we sat down, and spake unto the women which resorted thither.
Acts 16:14	And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira, which worshipped God, heard us: whose heart the Lord opened, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul.
Acts 16:15	And when she was baptized, and her household, she besought us, saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house, and abide there. And she constrained us.
Acts 16:16	And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain damsel possessed with a spirit of divination met us, which brought her masters much gain by soothsaying:
Acts 16:17	The same followed Paul and us, and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the most high God, which shew unto us the way of salvation.
Acts 16:18	And this did she many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out the same hour.
Acts 16:19	And when her masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone, they caught Paul and Silas, and drew them into the marketplace unto the rulers,
Acts 16:20	And brought them to the magistrates, saying, These men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city,
Acts 16:21	And teach customs, which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe, being Romans.
Acts 16:22	And the multitude rose up together against them: and the magistrates rent off their clothes, and commanded to beat them.
Acts 16:23	And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailor to keep them safely:
Acts 16:24	Who, having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison, and made their feet fast in the stocks.
Acts 16:25	And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praises unto God: and the prisoners heard them.
Acts 16:26	And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken: and immediately all the doors were opened, and every one's bands were loosed.
Acts 16:27	And the keeper of the prison awaking out of his sleep, and seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword, and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled.
Acts 16:28	But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm: for we are all here.
Acts 16:29	Then he called for a light, and sprang in, and came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas,
Acts 16:30	And brought them out, and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
Acts 16:31	And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house.
Acts 16:32	And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that were in his house.
Acts 16:33	And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their stripes; and was baptized, he and all his, straightway.
Acts 16:34	And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them, and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house.
Acts 16:35	And when it was day, the magistrates sent the serjeants, saying, Let those men go.
Acts 16:36	And the keeper of the prison told this saying to Paul, The magistrates have sent to let you go: now therefore depart, and go in peace.
Acts 16:37	But Paul said unto them, They have beaten us openly uncondemned, being Romans, and have cast us into prison; and now do they thrust us out privily? nay verily; but let them come themselves and fetch us out.
Acts 16:38	And the serjeants told these words unto the magistrates: and they feared, when they heard that they were Romans.
Acts 16:39	And they came and besought them, and brought them out, and desired them to depart out of the city.
Acts 16:40	And they went out of the prison, and entered into the house of Lydia: and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them, and departed.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 17
Acts 17:1	Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where was a synagogue of the Jews:
Acts 17:2	And Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them, and three sabbath days reasoned with them out of the scriptures,
Acts 17:3	Opening and alleging, that Christ must needs have suffered, and risen again from the dead; and that this Jesus, whom I preach unto you, is Christ.
Acts 17:4	And some of them believed, and consorted with Paul and Silas; and of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women not a few.
Acts 17:5	But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them certain lewd fellows of the baser sort, and gathered a company, and set all the city on an uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason, and sought to bring them out to the people.
Acts 17:6	And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also;
Acts 17:7	Whom Jason hath received: and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, one Jesus.
Acts 17:8	And they troubled the people and the rulers of the city, when they heard these things.
Acts 17:9	And when they had taken security of Jason, and of the other, they let them go.
Acts 17:10	And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night unto Berea: who coming thither went into the synagogue of the Jews.
Acts 17:11	These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the scriptures daily, whether those things were so.
Acts 17:12	Therefore many of them believed; also of honourable women which were Greeks, and of men, not a few.
Acts 17:13	But when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word of God was preached of Paul at Berea, they came thither also, and stirred up the people.
Acts 17:14	And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul to go as it were to the sea: but Silas and Timotheus abode there still.
Acts 17:15	And they that conducted Paul brought him unto Athens: and receiving a commandment unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to him with all speed, they departed.
Acts 17:16	Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred in him, when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.
Acts 17:17	Therefore disputed he in the synagogue with the Jews, and with the devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met with him.
Acts 17:18	Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoicks, encountered him. And some said, What will this babbler say? other some, He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods: because he preached unto them Jesus, and the resurrection.
Acts 17:19	And they took him, and brought him unto Areopagus, saying, May we know what this new doctrine, whereof thou speakest, is?
Acts 17:20	For thou bringest certain strange things to our ears: we would know therefore what these things mean.
Acts 17:21	(For all the Athenians and strangers which were there spent their time in nothing else, but either to tell, or to hear some new thing.)
Acts 17:22	Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and said, Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious.
Acts 17:23	For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you.
Acts 17:24	God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands;
Acts 17:25	Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed any thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things;
Acts 17:26	And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation;
Acts 17:27	That they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us:
Acts 17:28	For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also his offspring.
Acts 17:29	Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven by art and man's device.
Acts 17:30	And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now commandeth all men every where to repent:
Acts 17:31	Because he hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained; whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he hath raised him from the dead.
Acts 17:32	And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked: and others said, We will hear thee again of this matter.
Acts 17:33	So Paul departed from among them.
Acts 17:34	Howbeit certain men clave unto him, and believed: among the which was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 18
Acts 18:1	After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth;
Acts 18:2	And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla; (because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome:) and came unto them.
Acts 18:3	And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers.
Acts 18:4	And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks.
Acts 18:5	And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ.
Acts 18:6	And when they opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook his raiment, and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads; I am clean; from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles.
Acts 18:7	And he departed thence, and entered into a certain man's house, named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue.
Acts 18:8	And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed, and were baptized.
Acts 18:9	Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace:
Acts 18:10	For I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in this city.
Acts 18:11	And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
Acts 18:12	And when Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews made insurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to the judgment seat,
Acts 18:13	Saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law.
Acts 18:14	And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Gallio said unto the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews, reason would that I should bear with you:
Acts 18:15	But if it be a question of words and names, and of your law, look ye to it; for I will be no judge of such matters.
Acts 18:16	And he drave them from the judgment seat.
Acts 18:17	Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for none of those things.
Acts 18:18	And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for he had a vow.
Acts 18:19	And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.
Acts 18:20	When they desired him to tarry longer time with them, he consented not;
Acts 18:21	But bade them farewell, saying, I must by all means keep this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will return again unto you, if God will. And he sailed from Ephesus.
Acts 18:22	And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up, and saluted the church, he went down to Antioch.
Acts 18:23	And after he had spent some time there, he departed, and went over all the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
Acts 18:24	And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, and mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus.
Acts 18:25	This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John.
Acts 18:26	And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue: whom when Aquila and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them, and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly.
Acts 18:27	And when he was disposed to pass into Achaia, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him: who, when he was come, helped them much which had believed through grace:
Acts 18:28	For he mightily convinced the Jews, and that publickly, shewing by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 19
Acts 19:1	And it came to pass, that, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul having passed through the upper coasts came to Ephesus: and finding certain disciples,
Acts 19:2	He said unto them, Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed? And they said unto him, We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost.
Acts 19:3	And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And they said, Unto John's baptism.
Acts 19:4	Then said Paul, John verily baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people, that they should believe on him which should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus.
Acts 19:5	When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Acts 19:6	And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Ghost came on them; and they spake with tongues, and prophesied.
Acts 19:7	And all the men were about twelve.
Acts 19:8	And he went into the synagogue, and spake boldly for the space of three months, disputing and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God.
Acts 19:9	But when divers were hardened, and believed not, but spake evil of that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus.
Acts 19:10	And this continued by the space of two years; so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.
Acts 19:11	And God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul:
Acts 19:12	So that from his body were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons, and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out of them.
Acts 19:13	Then certain of the vagabond Jews, exorcists, took upon them to call over them which had evil spirits the name of the LORD Jesus, saying, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth.
Acts 19:14	And there were seven sons of one Sceva, a Jew, and chief of the priests, which did so.
Acts 19:15	And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are ye?
Acts 19:16	And the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, and overcame them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
Acts 19:17	And this was known to all the Jews and Greeks also dwelling at Ephesus; and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
Acts 19:18	And many that believed came, and confessed, and shewed their deeds.
Acts 19:19	Many of them also which used curious arts brought their books together, and burned them before all men: and they counted the price of them, and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.
Acts 19:20	So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.
Acts 19:21	After these things were ended, Paul purposed in the spirit, when he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome.
Acts 19:22	So he sent into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him, Timotheus and Erastus; but he himself stayed in Asia for a season.
Acts 19:23	And the same time there arose no small stir about that way.
Acts 19:24	For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsmen;
Acts 19:25	Whom he called together with the workmen of like occupation, and said, Sirs, ye know that by this craft we have our wealth.
Acts 19:26	Moreover ye see and hear, that not alone at Ephesus, but almost throughout all Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned away much people, saying that they be no gods, which are made with hands:
Acts 19:27	So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at nought; but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised, and her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worshippeth.
Acts 19:28	And when they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath, and cried out, saying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.
Acts 19:29	And the whole city was filled with confusion: and having caught Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel, they rushed with one accord into the theatre.
Acts 19:30	And when Paul would have entered in unto the people, the disciples suffered him not.
Acts 19:31	And certain of the chief of Asia, which were his friends, sent unto him, desiring him that he would not adventure himself into the theatre.
Acts 19:32	Some therefore cried one thing, and some another: for the assembly was confused: and the more part knew not wherefore they were come together.
Acts 19:33	And they drew Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews putting him forward. And Alexander beckoned with the hand, and would have made his defence unto the people.
Acts 19:34	But when they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice about the space of two hours cried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.
Acts 19:35	And when the townclerk had appeased the people, he said, Ye men of Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not how that the city of the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana, and of the image which fell down from Jupiter?
Acts 19:36	Seeing then that these things cannot be spoken against, ye ought to be quiet, and to do nothing rashly.
Acts 19:37	For ye have brought hither these men, which are neither robbers of churches, nor yet blasphemers of your goddess.
Acts 19:38	Wherefore if Demetrius, and the craftsmen which are with him, have a matter against any man, the law is open, and there are deputies: let them implead one another.
Acts 19:39	But if ye enquire any thing concerning other matters, it shall be determined in a lawful assembly.
Acts 19:40	For we are in danger to be called in question for this day's uproar, there being no cause whereby we may give an account of this concourse.
Acts 19:41	And when he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 20
Acts 20:1	And after the uproar was ceased, Paul called unto him the disciples, and embraced them, and departed for to go into Macedonia.
Acts 20:2	And when he had gone over those parts, and had given them much exhortation, he came into Greece,
Acts 20:3	And there abode three months. And when the Jews laid wait for him, as he was about to sail into Syria, he purposed to return through Macedonia.
Acts 20:4	And there accompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berea; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timotheus; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.
Acts 20:5	These going before tarried for us at Troas.
Acts 20:6	And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and came unto them to Troas in five days; where we abode seven days.
Acts 20:7	And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow; and continued his speech until midnight.
Acts 20:8	And there were many lights in the upper chamber, where they were gathered together.
Acts 20:9	And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutychus, being fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul was long preaching, he sunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, and was taken up dead.
Acts 20:10	And Paul went down, and fell on him, and embracing him said, Trouble not yourselves; for his life is in him.
Acts 20:11	When he therefore was come up again, and had broken bread, and eaten, and talked a long while, even till break of day, so he departed.
Acts 20:12	And they brought the young man alive, and were not a little comforted.
Acts 20:13	And we went before to ship, and sailed unto Assos, there intending to take in Paul: for so had he appointed, minding himself to go afoot.
Acts 20:14	And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in, and came to Mitylene.
Acts 20:15	And we sailed thence, and came the next day over against Chios; and the next day we arrived at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium; and the next day we came to Miletus.
Acts 20:16	For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus, because he would not spend the time in Asia: for he hasted, if it were possible for him, to be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost.
Acts 20:17	And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the elders of the church.
Acts 20:18	And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know, from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons,
Acts 20:19	Serving the LORD with all humility of mind, and with many tears, and temptations, which befell me by the lying in wait of the Jews:
Acts 20:20	And how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have shewed you, and have taught you publickly, and from house to house,
Acts 20:21	Testifying both to the Jews, and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ.
Acts 20:22	And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there:
Acts 20:23	Save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me.
Acts 20:24	But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God.
Acts 20:25	And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.
Acts 20:26	Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I am pure from the blood of all men.
Acts 20:27	For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God.
Acts 20:28	Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.
Acts 20:29	For I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
Acts 20:30	Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them.
Acts 20:31	Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears.
Acts 20:32	And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified.
Acts 20:33	I have coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel.
Acts 20:34	Yea, ye yourselves know, that these hands have ministered unto my necessities, and to them that were with me.
Acts 20:35	I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
Acts 20:36	And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, and prayed with them all.
Acts 20:37	And they all wept sore, and fell on Paul's neck, and kissed him,
Acts 20:38	Sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 21
Acts 21:1	And it came to pass, that after we were gotten from them, and had launched, we came with a straight course unto Coos, and the day following unto Rhodes, and from thence unto Patara:
Acts 21:2	And finding a ship sailing over unto Phenicia, we went aboard, and set forth.
Acts 21:3	Now when we had discovered Cyprus, we left it on the left hand, and sailed into Syria, and landed at Tyre: for there the ship was to unlade her burden.
Acts 21:4	And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days: who said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem.
Acts 21:5	And when we had accomplished those days, we departed and went our way; and they all brought us on our way, with wives and children, till we were out of the city: and we kneeled down on the shore, and prayed.
Acts 21:6	And when we had taken our leave one of another, we took ship; and they returned home again.
Acts 21:7	And when we had finished our course from Tyre, we came to Ptolemais, and saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day.
Acts 21:8	And the next day we that were of Paul's company departed, and came unto Caesarea: and we entered into the house of Philip the evangelist, which was one of the seven; and abode with him.
Acts 21:9	And the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy.
Acts 21:10	And as we tarried there many days, there came down from Judaea a certain prophet, named Agabus.
Acts 21:11	And when he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle, and bound his own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.
Acts 21:12	And when we heard these things, both we, and they of that place, besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Acts 21:13	Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break mine heart? for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
Acts 21:14	And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The will of the Lord be done.
Acts 21:15	And after those days we took up our carriages, and went up to Jerusalem.
Acts 21:16	There went with us also certain of the disciples of Caesarea, and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom we should lodge.
Acts 21:17	And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly.
Acts 21:18	And the day following Paul went in with us unto James; and all the elders were present.
Acts 21:19	And when he had saluted them, he declared particularly what things God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry.
Acts 21:20	And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said unto him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are which believe; and they are all zealous of the law:
Acts 21:21	And they are informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise their children, neither to walk after the customs.
Acts 21:22	What is it therefore? the multitude must needs come together: for they will hear that thou art come.
Acts 21:23	Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men which have a vow on them;
Acts 21:24	Them take, and purify thyself with them, and be at charges with them, that they may shave their heads: and all may know that those things, whereof they were informed concerning thee, are nothing; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, and keepest the law.
Acts 21:25	As touching the Gentiles which believe, we have written and concluded that they observe no such thing, save only that they keep themselves from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from strangled, and from fornication.
Acts 21:26	Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself with them entered into the temple, to signify the accomplishment of the days of purification, until that an offering should be offered for every one of them.
Acts 21:27	And when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews which were of Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people, and laid hands on him,
Acts 21:28	Crying out, Men of Israel, help: This is the man, that teacheth all men every where against the people, and the law, and this place: and further brought Greeks also into the temple, and hath polluted this holy place.
Acts 21:29	(For they had seen before with him in the city Trophimus an Ephesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.)
Acts 21:30	And all the city was moved, and the people ran together: and they took Paul, and drew him out of the temple: and forthwith the doors were shut.
Acts 21:31	And as they went about to kill him, tidings came unto the chief captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.
Acts 21:32	Who immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down unto them: and when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they left beating of Paul.
Acts 21:33	Then the chief captain came near, and took him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains; and demanded who he was, and what he had done.
Acts 21:34	And some cried one thing, some another, among the multitude: and when he could not know the certainty for the tumult, he commanded him to be carried into the castle.
Acts 21:35	And when he came upon the stairs, so it was, that he was borne of the soldiers for the violence of the people.
Acts 21:36	For the multitude of the people followed after, crying, Away with him.
Acts 21:37	And as Paul was to be led into the castle, he said unto the chief captain, May I speak unto thee? Who said, Canst thou speak Greek?
Acts 21:38	Art not thou that Egyptian, which before these days madest an uproar, and leddest out into the wilderness four thousand men that were murderers?
Acts 21:39	But Paul said, I am a man which am a Jew of Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and, I beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people.
Acts 21:40	And when he had given him licence, Paul stood on the stairs, and beckoned with the hand unto the people. And when there was made a great silence, he spake unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying,

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 22
Acts 22:1	Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence which I make now unto you.
Acts 22:2	(And when they heard that he spake in the Hebrew tongue to them, they kept the more silence: and he saith,)
Acts 22:3	I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye all are this day.
Acts 22:4	And I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women.
Acts 22:5	As also the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the estate of the elders: from whom also I received letters unto the brethren, and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound unto Jerusalem, for to be punished.
Acts 22:6	And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me.
Acts 22:7	And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?
Acts 22:8	And I answered, Who art thou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest.
Acts 22:9	And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid; but they heard not the voice of him that spake to me.
Acts 22:10	And I said, What shall I do, LORD? And the Lord said unto me, Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all things which are appointed for thee to do.
Acts 22:11	And when I could not see for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of them that were with me, I came into Damascus.
Acts 22:12	And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a good report of all the Jews which dwelt there,
Acts 22:13	Came unto me, and stood, and said unto me, Brother Saul, receive thy sight. And the same hour I looked up upon him.
Acts 22:14	And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear the voice of his mouth.
Acts 22:15	For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast seen and heard.
Acts 22:16	And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord.
Acts 22:17	And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem, even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance;
Acts 22:18	And saw him saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me.
Acts 22:19	And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee:
Acts 22:20	And when the blood of thy martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him.
Acts 22:21	And he said unto me, Depart: for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles.
Acts 22:22	And they gave him audience unto this word, and then lifted up their voices, and said, Away with such a fellow from the earth: for it is not fit that he should live.
Acts 22:23	And as they cried out, and cast off their clothes, and threw dust into the air,
Acts 22:24	The chief captain commanded him to be brought into the castle, and bade that he should be examined by scourging; that he might know wherefore they cried so against him.
Acts 22:25	And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned?
Acts 22:26	When the centurion heard that, he went and told the chief captain, saying, Take heed what thou doest: for this man is a Roman.
Acts 22:27	Then the chief captain came, and said unto him, Tell me, art thou a Roman? He said, Yea.
Acts 22:28	And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this freedom. And Paul said, But I was free born.
Acts 22:29	Then straightway they departed from him which should have examined him: and the chief captain also was afraid, after he knew that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him.
Acts 22:30	On the morrow, because he would have known the certainty wherefore he was accused of the Jews, he loosed him from his bands, and commanded the chief priests and all their council to appear, and brought Paul down, and set him before them.
>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 23
Acts 23:1	And Paul, earnestly beholding the council, said, Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day.
Acts 23:2	And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him to smite him on the mouth.
Acts 23:3	Then said Paul unto him, God shall smite thee, thou whited wall: for sittest thou to judge me after the law, and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law?
Acts 23:4	And they that stood by said, Revilest thou God's high priest?
Acts 23:5	Then said Paul, I wist not, brethren, that he was the high priest: for it is written, Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people.
Acts 23:6	But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees, and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, Men and brethren, I am a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee: of the hope and resurrection of the dead I am called in question.
Acts 23:7	And when he had so said, there arose a dissension between the Pharisees and the Sadducees: and the multitude was divided.
Acts 23:8	For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel, nor spirit: but the Pharisees confess both.
Acts 23:9	And there arose a great cry: and the scribes that were of the Pharisees' part arose, and strove, saying, We find no evil in this man: but if a spirit or an angel hath spoken to him, let us not fight against God.
Acts 23:10	And when there arose a great dissension, the chief captain, fearing lest Paul should have been pulled in pieces of them, commanded the soldiers to go down, and to take him by force from among them, and to bring him into the castle.
Acts 23:11	And the night following the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer, Paul: for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome.
Acts 23:12	And when it was day, certain of the Jews banded together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul.
Acts 23:13	And they were more than forty which had made this conspiracy.
Acts 23:14	And they came to the chief priests and elders, and said, We have bound ourselves under a great curse, that we will eat nothing until we have slain Paul.
Acts 23:15	Now therefore ye with the council signify to the chief captain that he bring him down unto you to morrow, as though ye would enquire something more perfectly concerning him: and we, or ever he come near, are ready to kill him.
Acts 23:16	And when Paul's sister's son heard of their lying in wait, he went and entered into the castle, and told Paul.
Acts 23:17	Then Paul called one of the centurions unto him, and said, Bring this young man unto the chief captain: for he hath a certain thing to tell him.
Acts 23:18	So he took him, and brought him to the chief captain, and said, Paul the prisoner called me unto him, and prayed me to bring this young man unto thee, who hath something to say unto thee.
Acts 23:19	Then the chief captain took him by the hand, and went with him aside privately, and asked him, What is that thou hast to tell me?
Acts 23:20	And he said, The Jews have agreed to desire thee that thou wouldest bring down Paul to morrow into the council, as though they would enquire somewhat of him more perfectly.
Acts 23:21	But do not thou yield unto them: for there lie in wait for him of them more than forty men, which have bound themselves with an oath, that they will neither eat nor drink till they have killed him: and now are they ready, looking for a promise from thee.
Acts 23:22	So the chief captain then let the young man depart, and charged him, See thou tell no man that thou hast shewed these things to me.
Acts 23:23	And he called unto him two centurions, saying, Make ready two hundred soldiers to go to Caesarea, and horsemen threescore and ten, and spearmen two hundred, at the third hour of the night;
Acts 23:24	And provide them beasts, that they may set Paul on, and bring him safe unto Felix the governor.
Acts 23:25	And he wrote a letter after this manner:
Acts 23:26	Claudius Lysias unto the most excellent governor Felix sendeth greeting.
Acts 23:27	This man was taken of the Jews, and should have been killed of them: then came I with an army, and rescued him, having understood that he was a Roman.
Acts 23:28	And when I would have known the cause wherefore they accused him, I brought him forth into their council:
Acts 23:29	Whom I perceived to be accused of questions of their law, but to have nothing laid to his charge worthy of death or of bonds.
Acts 23:30	And when it was told me how that the Jews laid wait for the man, I sent straightway to thee, and gave commandment to his accusers also to say before thee what they had against him. Farewell.
Acts 23:31	Then the soldiers, as it was commanded them, took Paul, and brought him by night to Antipatris.
Acts 23:32	On the morrow they left the horsemen to go with him, and returned to the castle:
Acts 23:33	Who, when they came to Caesarea and delivered the epistle to the governor, presented Paul also before him.
Acts 23:34	And when the governor had read the letter, he asked of what province he was. And when he understood that he was of Cilicia;
Acts 23:35	I will hear thee, said he, when thine accusers are also come. And he commanded him to be kept in Herod's judgment hall.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 24
Acts 24:1	And after five days Ananias the high priest descended with the elders, and with a certain orator named Tertullus, who informed the governor against Paul.
Acts 24:2	And when he was called forth, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, Seeing that by thee we enjoy great quietness, and that very worthy deeds are done unto this nation by thy providence,
Acts 24:3	We accept it always, and in all places, most noble Felix, with all thankfulness.
Acts 24:4	Notwithstanding, that I be not further tedious unto thee, I pray thee that thou wouldest hear us of thy clemency a few words.
Acts 24:5	For we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes:
Acts 24:6	Who also hath gone about to profane the temple: whom we took, and would have judged according to our law.
Acts 24:7	But the chief captain Lysias came upon us, and with great violence took him away out of our hands,
Acts 24:8	Commanding his accusers to come unto thee: by examining of whom thyself mayest take knowledge of all these things, whereof we accuse him.
Acts 24:9	And the Jews also assented, saying that these things were so.
Acts 24:10	Then Paul, after that the governor had beckoned unto him to speak, answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself:
Acts 24:11	Because that thou mayest understand, that there are yet but twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem for to worship.
Acts 24:12	And they neither found me in the temple disputing with any man, neither raising up the people, neither in the synagogues, nor in the city:
Acts 24:13	Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me.
Acts 24:14	But this I confess unto thee, that after the way which they call heresy, so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and in the prophets:
Acts 24:15	And have hope toward God, which they themselves also allow, that there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.
Acts 24:16	And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void to offence toward God, and toward men.
Acts 24:17	Now after many years I came to bring alms to my nation, and offerings.
Acts 24:18	Whereupon certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, neither with multitude, nor with tumult.
Acts 24:19	Who ought to have been here before thee, and object, if they had ought against me.
Acts 24:20	Or else let these same here say, if they have found any evil doing in me, while I stood before the council,
Acts 24:21	Except it be for this one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the resurrection of the dead I am called in question by you this day.
Acts 24:22	And when Felix heard these things, having more perfect knowledge of that way, he deferred them, and said, When Lysias the chief captain shall come down, I will know the uttermost of your matter.
Acts 24:23	And he commanded a centurion to keep Paul, and to let him have liberty, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance to minister or come unto him.
Acts 24:24	And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ.
Acts 24:25	And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time; when I have a convenient season, I will call for thee.
Acts 24:26	He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul, that he might loose him: wherefore he sent for him the oftener, and communed with him.
Acts 24:27	But after two years Porcius Festus came into Felix' room: and Felix, willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 25
Acts 25:1	Now when Festus was come into the province, after three days he ascended from Caesarea to Jerusalem.
Acts 25:2	Then the high priest and the chief of the Jews informed him against Paul, and besought him,
Acts 25:3	And desired favour against him, that he would send for him to Jerusalem, laying wait in the way to kill him.
Acts 25:4	But Festus answered, that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and that he himself would depart shortly thither.
Acts 25:5	Let them therefore, said he, which among you are able, go down with me, and accuse this man, if there be any wickedness in him.
Acts 25:6	And when he had tarried among them more than ten days, he went down unto Caesarea; and the next day sitting on the judgment seat commanded Paul to be brought.
Acts 25:7	And when he was come, the Jews which came down from Jerusalem stood round about, and laid many and grievous complaints against Paul, which they could not prove.
Acts 25:8	While he answered for himself, Neither against the law of the Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar, have I offended any thing at all.
Acts 25:9	But Festus, willing to do the Jews a pleasure, answered Paul, and said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things before me?
Acts 25:10	Then said Paul, I stand at Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be judged: to the Jews have I done no wrong, as thou very well knowest.
Acts 25:11	For if I be an offender, or have committed any thing worthy of death, I refuse not to die: but if there be none of these things whereof these accuse me, no man may deliver me unto them. I appeal unto Caesar.
Acts 25:12	Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, Hast thou appealed unto Caesar? unto Caesar shalt thou go.
Acts 25:13	And after certain days king Agrippa and Bernice came unto Caesarea to salute Festus.
Acts 25:14	And when they had been there many days, Festus declared Paul's cause unto the king, saying, There is a certain man left in bonds by Felix:
Acts 25:15	About whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, desiring to have judgment against him.
Acts 25:16	To whom I answered, It is not the manner of the Romans to deliver any man to die, before that he which is accused have the accusers face to face, and have licence to answer for himself concerning the crime laid against him.
Acts 25:17	Therefore, when they were come hither, without any delay on the morrow I sat on the judgment seat, and commanded the man to be brought forth.
Acts 25:18	Against whom when the accusers stood up, they brought none accusation of such things as I supposed:
Acts 25:19	But had certain questions against him of their own superstition, and of one Jesus, which was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.
Acts 25:20	And because I doubted of such manner of questions, I asked him whether he would go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these matters.
Acts 25:21	But when Paul had appealed to be reserved unto the hearing of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept till I might send him to Caesar.
Acts 25:22	Then Agrippa said unto Festus, I would also hear the man myself. To morrow, said he, thou shalt hear him.
Acts 25:23	And on the morrow, when Agrippa was come, and Bernice, with great pomp, and was entered into the place of hearing, with the chief captains, and principal men of the city, at Festus' commandment Paul was brought forth.
Acts 25:24	And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all men which are here present with us, ye see this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews have dealt with me, both at Jerusalem, and also here, crying that he ought not to live any longer.
Acts 25:25	But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, and that he himself hath appealed to Augustus, I have determined to send him.
Acts 25:26	Of whom I have no certain thing to write unto my lord. Wherefore I have brought him forth before you, and specially before thee, O king Agrippa, that, after examination had, I might have somewhat to write.
Acts 25:27	For it seemeth to me unreasonable to send a prisoner, and not withal to signify the crimes laid against him.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 26
Acts 26:1	Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretched forth the hand, and answered for himself:
Acts 26:2	I think myself happy, king Agrippa, because I shall answer for myself this day before thee touching all the things whereof I am accused of the Jews:
Acts 26:3	Especially because I know thee to be expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews: wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently.
Acts 26:4	My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first among mine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews;
Acts 26:5	Which knew me from the beginning, if they would testify, that after the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.
Acts 26:6	And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made of God, unto our fathers:
Acts 26:7	Unto which promise our twelve tribes, instantly serving God day and night, hope to come. For which hope's sake, king Agrippa, I am accused of the Jews.
Acts 26:8	Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should raise the dead?
Acts 26:9	I verily thought with myself, that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
Acts 26:10	Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them.
Acts 26:11	And I punished them oft in every synagogue, and compelled them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities.
Acts 26:12	Whereupon as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests,
Acts 26:13	At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them which journeyed with me.
Acts 26:14	And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
Acts 26:15	And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest.
Acts 26:16	But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee;
Acts 26:17	Delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee,
Acts 26:18	To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me.
Acts 26:19	Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision:
Acts 26:20	But shewed first unto them of Damascus, and at Jerusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Judaea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, and do works meet for repentance.
Acts 26:21	For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple, and went about to kill me.
Acts 26:22	Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come:
Acts 26:23	That Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead, and should shew light unto the people, and to the Gentiles.
Acts 26:24	And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad.
Acts 26:25	But he said, I am not mad, most noble Festus; but speak forth the words of truth and soberness.
Acts 26:26	For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak freely: for I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from him; for this thing was not done in a corner.
Acts 26:27	King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest.
Acts 26:28	Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian.
Acts 26:29	And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds.
Acts 26:30	And when he had thus spoken, the king rose up, and the governor, and Bernice, and they that sat with them:
Acts 26:31	And when they were gone aside, they talked between themselves, saying, This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds.
Acts 26:32	Then said Agrippa unto Festus, This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed unto Caesar.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 27
Acts 27:1	And when it was determined that we should sail into Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other prisoners unto one named Julius, a centurion of Augustus' band.
Acts 27:2	And entering into a ship of Adramyttium, we launched, meaning to sail by the coasts of Asia; one Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.
Acts 27:3	And the next day we touched at Sidon. And Julius courteously entreated Paul, and gave him liberty to go unto his friends to refresh himself.
Acts 27:4	And when we had launched from thence, we sailed under Cyprus, because the winds were contrary.
Acts 27:5	And when we had sailed over the sea of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia.
Acts 27:6	And there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing into Italy; and he put us therein.
Acts 27:7	And when we had sailed slowly many days, and scarce were come over against Cnidus, the wind not suffering us, we sailed under Crete, over against Salmone;
Acts 27:8	And, hardly passing it, came unto a place which is called The fair havens; nigh whereunto was the city of Lasea.
Acts 27:9	Now when much time was spent, and when sailing was now dangerous, because the fast was now already past, Paul admonished them,
Acts 27:10	And said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage, not only of the lading and ship, but also of our lives.
Acts 27:11	Nevertheless the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship, more than those things which were spoken by Paul.
Acts 27:12	And because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more part advised to depart thence also, if by any means they might attain to Phenice, and there to winter; which is an haven of Crete, and lieth toward the south west and north west.
Acts 27:13	And when the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, loosing thence, they sailed close by Crete.
Acts 27:14	But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind, called Euroclydon.
Acts 27:15	And when the ship was caught, and could not bear up into the wind, we let her drive.
Acts 27:16	And running under a certain island which is called Clauda, we had much work to come by the boat:
Acts 27:17	Which when they had taken up, they used helps, undergirding the ship; and, fearing lest they should fall into the quicksands, strake sail, and so were driven.
Acts 27:18	And we being exceedingly tossed with a tempest, the next day they lightened the ship;
Acts 27:19	And the third day we cast out with our own hands the tackling of the ship.
Acts 27:20	And when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope that we should be saved was then taken away.
Acts 27:21	But after long abstinence Paul stood forth in the midst of them, and said, Sirs, ye should have hearkened unto me, and not have loosed from Crete, and to have gained this harm and loss.
Acts 27:22	And now I exhort you to be of good cheer: for there shall be no loss of any man's life among you, but of the ship.
Acts 27:23	For there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am, and whom I serve,
Acts 27:24	Saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must be brought before Caesar: and, lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee.
Acts 27:25	Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer: for I believe God, that it shall be even as it was told me.
Acts 27:26	Howbeit we must be cast upon a certain island.
Acts 27:27	But when the fourteenth night was come, as we were driven up and down in Adria, about midnight the shipmen deemed that they drew near to some country;
Acts 27:28	And sounded, and found it twenty fathoms: and when they had gone a little further, they sounded again, and found it fifteen fathoms.
Acts 27:29	Then fearing lest we should have fallen upon rocks, they cast four anchors out of the stern, and wished for the day.
Acts 27:30	And as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, when they had let down the boat into the sea, under colour as though they would have cast anchors out of the foreship,
Acts 27:31	Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved.
Acts 27:32	Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat, and let her fall off.
Acts 27:33	And while the day was coming on, Paul besought them all to take meat, saying, This day is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried and continued fasting, having taken nothing.
Acts 27:34	Wherefore I pray you to take some meat: for this is for your health: for there shall not an hair fall from the head of any of you.
Acts 27:35	And when he had thus spoken, he took bread, and gave thanks to God in presence of them all: and when he had broken it, he began to eat.
Acts 27:36	Then were they all of good cheer, and they also took some meat.
Acts 27:37	And we were in all in the ship two hundred threescore and sixteen souls.
Acts 27:38	And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, and cast out the wheat into the sea.
Acts 27:39	And when it was day, they knew not the land: but they discovered a certain creek with a shore, into the which they were minded, if it were possible, to thrust in the ship.
Acts 27:40	And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves unto the sea, and loosed the rudder bands, and hoised up the mainsail to the wind, and made toward shore.
Acts 27:41	And falling into a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground; and the forepart stuck fast, and remained unmoveable, but the hinder part was broken with the violence of the waves.
Acts 27:42	And the soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim out, and escape.
Acts 27:43	But the centurion, willing to save Paul, kept them from their purpose; and commanded that they which could swim should cast themselves first into the sea, and get to land:
Acts 27:44	And the rest, some on boards, and some on broken pieces of the ship. And so it came to pass, that they escaped all safe to land.

>Acts
>Index
>End

===Acts 28
Acts 28:1	And when they were escaped, then they knew that the island was called Melita.
Acts 28:2	And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindness: for they kindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the present rain, and because of the cold.
Acts 28:3	And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid them on the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand.
Acts 28:4	And when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hang on his hand, they said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live.
Acts 28:5	And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm.
Acts 28:6	Howbeit they looked when he should have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god.
Acts 28:7	In the same quarters were possessions of the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius; who received us, and lodged us three days courteously.
Acts 28:8	And it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and of a bloody flux: to whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and laid his hands on him, and healed him.
Acts 28:9	So when this was done, others also, which had diseases in the island, came, and were healed:
Acts 28:10	Who also honoured us with many honours; and when we departed, they laded us with such things as were necessary.
Acts 28:11	And after three months we departed in a ship of Alexandria, which had wintered in the isle, whose sign was Castor and Pollux.
Acts 28:12	And landing at Syracuse, we tarried there three days.
Acts 28:13	And from thence we fetched a compass, and came to Rhegium: and after one day the south wind blew, and we came the next day to Puteoli:
Acts 28:14	Where we found brethren, and were desired to tarry with them seven days: and so we went toward Rome.
Acts 28:15	And from thence, when the brethren heard of us, they came to meet us as far as Appii forum, and The three taverns: whom when Paul saw, he thanked God, and took courage.
Acts 28:16	And when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard: but Paul was suffered to dwell by himself with a soldier that kept him.
Acts 28:17	And it came to pass, that after three days Paul called the chief of the Jews together: and when they were come together, he said unto them, Men and brethren, though I have committed nothing against the people, or customs of our fathers, yet was I delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
Acts 28:18	Who, when they had examined me, would have let me go, because there was no cause of death in me.
Acts 28:19	But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal unto Caesar; not that I had ought to accuse my nation of.
Acts 28:20	For this cause therefore have I called for you, to see you, and to speak with you: because that for the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain.
Acts 28:21	And they said unto him, We neither received letters out of Judaea concerning thee, neither any of the brethren that came shewed or spake any harm of thee.
Acts 28:22	But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, we know that every where it is spoken against.
Acts 28:23	And when they had appointed him a day, there came many to him into his lodging; to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses, and out of the prophets, from morning till evening.
Acts 28:24	And some believed the things which were spoken, and some believed not.
Acts 28:25	And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed, after that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Ghost by Esaias the prophet unto our fathers,
Acts 28:26	Saying, Go unto this people, and say, Hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall see, and not perceive:
Acts 28:27	For the heart of this people is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed; lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them.
Acts 28:28	Be it known therefore unto you, that the salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles, and that they will hear it.
Acts 28:29	And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, and had great reasoning among themselves.
Acts 28:30	And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and received all that came in unto him,
Acts 28:31	Preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, no man forbidding him.

>Acts
>Index
>End



